	Texture Synthesis Using Convolutional Neural Networks,Here we introduce a new model of natural textures based on the feature spaces of convolutional neural networks optimised for object recognition. Samples from the model are of high perceptual quality demonstrating the generative power of neural networks trained in a purely discriminative fashion. Within the model, textures are represented by the correlations between feature maps in several layers of the network. We show that across layers the texture representations increasingly capture the statistical properties of natural images while making object information more and more explicit. The model provides a new tool to generate stimuli for neuroscience and might offer insights into the deep representations learned by convolutional neural networks.
Convolutional Neural Networks with Intra-Layer Recurrent Connections for Scene Labeling,Scene labeling is a challenging computer vision task. It requires the use of both local discriminative features and global context information. We adopt a deep recurrent convolutional neural network (RCNN) for this task, which is originally proposed for object recognition. Different from traditional convolutional neural networks (CNN), this model has intra-layer recurrent connections in the convolutional layers. Therefore each convolutional layer becomes a two-dimensional recurrent neural network. The units receive constant feed-forward inputs from the previous layer and recurrent inputs from their neighborhoods. While recurrent iterations proceed, the region of context captured by each unit expands. In this way, feature extraction and context modulation are seamlessly integrated, which is different from typical methods that entail separate modules for the two steps. To further utilize the context, a multi-scale RCNN is proposed. Over two benchmark datasets, Standford Background and Sift Flow, the model outperforms many state-of-the-art models in accuracy and efficiency.
Grammar as a Foreign Language,Syntactic constituency parsing is a fundamental problem in naturallanguage processing which has been the subject of intensive researchand engineering for decades.  As a result, the most accurate parsersare domain specific, complex, and inefficient.  In this paper we showthat the domain agnostic attention-enhanced sequence-to-sequence modelachieves state-of-the-art results on the most widely used syntacticconstituency parsing dataset, when trained on a large synthetic corpusthat was annotated using existing parsers.  It also matches theperformance of standard parsers when trained on a smallhuman-annotated dataset, which shows that this model is highlydata-efficient, in contrast to sequence-to-sequence models without theattention mechanism.  Our parser is also fast, processing over ahundred sentences per second with an unoptimized CPU implementation.
Recursive Training of 2D-3D Convolutional Networks for Neuronal Boundary Prediction,Efforts to automate the reconstruction of neural circuits from 3D electron microscopic (EM) brain images are critical for the field of connectomics. An important computation for reconstruction is the detection of neuronal boundaries. Images acquired by serial section EM, a leading 3D EM technique, are highly anisotropic, with inferior quality along the third dimension. For such images, the 2D max-pooling convolutional network has set the standard for performance at boundary detection. Here we achieve a substantial gain in accuracy through three innovations. Following the trend towards deeper networks for object recognition, we use a much deeper network than previously employed for boundary detection. Second, we incorporate 3D as well as 2D filters, to enable computations that use 3D context. Finally, we adopt a recursively trained architecture in which a first network generates a preliminary boundary map that is provided as input along with the original image to a second network that generates a final boundary map. Backpropagation training is accelerated by ZNN, a new implementation of 3D convolutional networks that uses multicore CPU parallelism for speed. Our hybrid 2D-3D architecture could be more generally applicable to other types of anisotropic 3D images, including video, and our recursive framework for any image labeling problem.
Generative Image Modeling Using Spatial LSTMs,Modeling the distribution of natural images is challenging, partly because of strong statistical dependencies which can extend over hundreds of pixels. Recurrent neural networks have been successful in capturing long-range dependencies in a number of problems but only recently have found their way into generative image models. We here introduce a recurrent image model based on multi-dimensional long short-term memory units which are particularly suited for image modeling due to their spatial structure. Our model scales to images of arbitrary size and its likelihood is computationally tractable. We find that it outperforms the state of the art in quantitative comparisons on several image datasets and produces promising results when used for texture synthesis and inpainting.
Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks,State-of-the-art object detection networks depend on region proposal algorithms to hypothesize object locations. Advances like SPPnet and Fast R-CNN have reduced the running time of these detection networks, exposing region proposal computation as a bottleneck. In this work, we introduce a Region Proposal Network (RPN) that shares full-image convolutional features with the detection network, thus enabling nearly cost-free region proposals. An RPN is a fully-convolutional network that simultaneously predicts object bounds and objectness scores at each position. RPNs are trained end-to-end to generate high-quality region proposals, which are used by Fast R-CNN for detection. With a simple alternating optimization, RPN and Fast R-CNN can be trained to share convolutional features. For the very deep VGG-16 model, our detection system has a frame rate of 5fps (including all steps) on a GPU, while achieving state-of-the-art object detection accuracy on PASCAL VOC 2007 (73.2% mAP) and 2012 (70.4% mAP) using 300 proposals per image. Code is available at https://github.com/ShaoqingRen/faster_rcnn.
Weakly-supervised Disentangling with Recurrent Transformations for 3D View Synthesis,An important problem for both graphics and vision is to synthesize novel views of a 3D object from a single image. This is in particular challenging due to the partial observability inherent in projecting a 3D object onto the image space, and the ill-posedness of inferring object shape and pose. However, we can train a neural network to address the problem if we restrict our attention to specific object classes (in our case faces and chairs) for which we can gather ample training data. In this paper, we propose a novel recurrent convolutional encoder-decoder network that is trained end-to-end on the task of rendering rotated objects starting from a single image. The recurrent structure allows our model to capture long- term dependencies along a sequence of transformations, and we demonstrate the quality of its predictions for human faces on the Multi-PIE dataset and for a dataset of 3D chair models, and also show its ability of disentangling latent data factors without using object class labels.
Exploring Models and Data for Image Question Answering,This work aims to address the problem of image-based question-answering (QA) with new models and datasets. In our work, we propose to use neural networks and visual semantic embeddings, without intermediate stages such as object detection and image segmentation, to predict answers to simple questions about images. Our model performs 1.8 times better than the only published results on an existing image QA dataset. We also present a question generation algorithm that converts image descriptions, which are widely available, into QA form. We used this algorithm to produce an order-of-magnitude larger dataset, with more evenly distributed answers. A suite of baseline results on this new dataset are also presented.
Are You Talking to a Machine? Dataset and Methods for Multilingual Image Question,In this paper, we present the mQA model, which is able to answer questions about the content of an image. The answer can be a sentence, a phrase or a single word. Our model contains four components: a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) to extract the question representation, a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to extract the visual representation, an LSTM for storing the linguistic context in an answer, and a fusing component to combine the information from the first three components and generate the answer. We construct a Freestyle Multilingual Image Question Answering (FM-IQA) dataset to train and evaluate our mQA model. It contains over 150,000 images and 310,000 freestyle Chinese question-answer pairs and their English translations. The quality of the generated answers of our mQA model on this dataset is evaluated by human judges through a Turing Test. Specifically, we mix the answers provided by humans and our model. The human judges need to distinguish our model from the human. They will also provide a score (i.e. 0, 1, 2, the larger the better) indicating the quality of the answer. We propose strategies to monitor the quality of this evaluation process. The experiments show that in 64.7% of cases, the human judges cannot distinguish our model from humans. The average score is 1.454 (1.918 for human). The details of this work, including the FM-IQA dataset, can be found on the project page: \url{http://idl.baidu.com/FM-IQA.html}.
Parallel Multi-Dimensional LSTM, With Application to Fast Biomedical Volumetric Image Segmentation,Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) can be shifted across 2D images or 3D videos to segment them. They have a fixed input size and typically perceive only small local contexts of the pixels to be classified as foreground or background. In contrast, Multi-Dimensional Recurrent NNs (MD-RNNs) can perceive the entire spatio-temporal context of each pixel in a few sweeps through all pixels, especially when the RNN is a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM). Despite these theoretical advantages, however, unlike CNNs, previous MD-LSTM variants were hard to parallelise on GPUs. Here we re-arrange the traditional cuboid order of computations in MD-LSTM in pyramidal fashion. The resulting PyraMiD-LSTM is easy to parallelise, especially for 3D data such as stacks of brain slice images. PyraMiD-LSTM achieved best known pixel-wise brain image segmentation results on MRBrainS13 (and competitive results on EM-ISBI12).
Learning From Small Samples: An Analysis of Simple Decision Heuristics,Simple decision heuristics are models of human and animal behavior that use few pieces of information---perhaps only a single piece of information---and integrate the pieces in simple ways, for example, by considering them sequentially, one at a time, or by giving them equal weight. It is unknown how quickly these heuristics can be learned from experience. We show, analytically and empirically, that only a few training samples lead to substantial progress in learning. We focus on three families of heuristics: single-cue decision making, lexicographic decision making, and tallying. Our empirical analysis is the most extensive to date, employing 63 natural data sets on diverse subjects. 
3D Object Proposals for Accurate Object Class Detection,The goal of this paper is to generate high-quality 3D object proposals in the context of autonomous driving. Our method exploits stereo imagery to  place proposals in the form of 3D bounding boxes. We formulate the problem as minimizing an energy function encoding object size priors,  ground plane as well as several depth informed features that reason about free space, point cloud densities and distance to the ground.  Our experiments  show significant performance gains over existing RGB and RGB-D object proposal methods  on the challenging KITTI benchmark. Combined with convolutional neural net (CNN) scoring, our approach outperforms all existing results on all three KITTI object classes.
The Poisson Gamma Belief Network,To infer a multilayer representation of high-dimensional count vectors, we propose the Poisson gamma belief network (PGBN) that factorizes each of its layers into the product of a connection weight matrix and the nonnegative real hidden units of the next layer. The PGBN's hidden layers are jointly trained with an upward-downward Gibbs sampler, each iteration of which upward samples Dirichlet distributed connection weight vectors starting from the first layer (bottom data layer), and then downward samples gamma distributed hidden units starting from the top hidden layer. The gamma-negative binomial process combined with a layer-wise training strategy allows the PGBN to infer the width of each layer given a fixed budget on the width of the first layer. The PGBN with a single hidden layer reduces to Poisson factor analysis. Example results on text analysis illustrate interesting relationships between the width of the first layer and the inferred network structure, and demonstrate that the PGBN, whose hidden units are imposed with correlated gamma priors, can add more layers to increase its performance gains over Poisson factor analysis, given the same limit on the width of the first layer. 
Semi-Supervised Factored Logistic Regression for High-Dimensional Neuroimaging Data,Imaging neuroscience links human behavior to aspects of brain biology in ever-increasing datasets. Existing neuroimaging methods typically perform either discovery of unknown neural structure or testing of neural structure associated with mental tasks. However, testing hypotheses on the neural correlates underlying larger sets of mental tasks necessitates adequate representations for the observations. We therefore propose to blend representation modelling and task classification into a unified statistical learning problem. A multinomial logistic regression is introduced that is constrained by factored coefficients and coupled with an autoencoder. We show that this approach yields more accurate and interpretable neural models of psychological tasks in a reference dataset, as well as better generalization to other datasets.
BinaryConnect: Training Deep Neural Networks with binary weights during propagations,Deep Neural Networks (DNN) have achieved state-of-the-art results in a wide range of tasks, with the best results obtained with large training sets and large models. In the past, GPUs enabled these breakthroughs because of their greater computational speed. In the future, faster computation at both training and test time is likely to be crucial for further progress and for consumer applications on low-power devices. As a result, there is much interest in research and development of dedicated hardware for Deep Learning (DL). Binary weights, i.e., weights which are constrained to only two possible values (e.g. -1 or 1), would bring great benefits to specialized DL hardware by replacing many multiply-accumulate operations by simple accumulations, as multipliers are the most space and power-hungry components of the digital implementation of neural networks. We introduce BinaryConnect, a method which consists in training a DNN with binary weights during the forward and backward propagations, while retaining precision of the stored weights in which gradients are accumulated. Like other dropout schemes, we show that BinaryConnect acts as regularizer and we obtain near state-of-the-art results with BinaryConnect on the permutation-invariant MNIST, CIFAR-10 and SVHN.
Learning to Transduce with Unbounded Memory,Recently, strong results have been demonstrated by Deep Recurrent Neural Networks on natural language transduction problems. In this paper we explore the representational power of these models using synthetic grammars designed to exhibit phenomena similar to those found in real transduction problems such as machine translation. These experiments lead us to propose new memory-based recurrent networks that implement continuously differentiable analogues of traditional data structures such as Stacks, Queues, and DeQues. We show that these architectures exhibit superior generalisation performance to Deep RNNs and are often able to learn the underlying generating algorithms in our transduction experiments.
Spectral Representations for Convolutional Neural Networks,Discrete Fourier transforms provide a significant speedup in the computation of convolutions in deep learning. In this work, we demonstrate that, beyond its advantages for efficient computation, the spectral domain also provides a powerful representation in which to model and train convolutional neural networks (CNNs).We employ spectral representations to introduce a number of innovations to CNN design. First, we propose spectral pooling, which performs dimensionality reduction by truncating the representation in the frequency domain. This approach preserves considerably more information per parameter than other pooling strategies and enables flexibility in the choice of pooling output dimensionality.  This representation also enables a new form of stochastic regularization by randomized modification of resolution.  We show that these methods achieve competitive results on classification and approximation tasks, without using any dropout or max-pooling.  Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of complex-coefficient spectral parameterization of convolutional filters. While this leaves the underlying model unchanged, it results in a representation that greatly facilitates optimization. We observe on a variety of popular CNN configurations that this leads to significantly faster convergence during training.
A Theory of Decision Making Under Dynamic Context,The dynamics of simple decisions are well understood and modeled as a class of random walk models (e.g. Laming, 1968; Ratcliff, 1978; Busemeyer and Townsend, 1993; Usher and McClelland, 2001; Bogacz et al., 2006). However, most real-life decisions include a rich and dynamically-changing influence of additional information we call context. In this work, we describe a computational theory of decision making under dynamically shifting context. We show how the model generalizes the dominant existing model of fixed-context decision making (Ratcliff, 1978) and can be built up from a weighted combination of fixed-context decisions evolving simultaneously. We also show how the model generalizes re- cent work on the control of attention in the Flanker task (Yu et al., 2009). Finally, we show how the model recovers qualitative data patterns in another task of longstanding psychological interest, the AX Continuous Performance Test (Servan-Schreiber et al., 1996), using the same model parameters. 
Bidirectional Recurrent Neural Networks as Generative Models,Bidirectional recurrent neural networks (RNN) are trained to predict both in the positive and negative time directions simultaneously. They have not been used commonly in unsupervised tasks, because a probabilistic interpretation of the model has been difficult. Recently, two different frameworks, GSN and NADE, provide a connection between reconstruction and probabilistic modeling, which makes the interpretation possible. As far as we know, neither GSN or NADE have been studied in the context of time series before.As an example of an unsupervised task, we study the problem of filling in gaps in high-dimensional time series with complex dynamics. Although unidirectional RNNs have recently been trained successfully to model such time series, inference in the negative time direction is non-trivial. We propose two probabilistic interpretations of bidirectional RNNs that can be used to reconstruct missing gaps efficiently. Our experiments on text data show that both proposed methods are much more accurate than unidirectional reconstructions, although a bit less accurate than a computationally complex bidirectional Bayesian inference on the unidirectional RNN. We also provide results on music data for which the Bayesian inference is computationally infeasible, demonstrating the scalability of the proposed methods.
Recognizing retinal ganglion cells in the dark,Many neural circuits are composed of numerous distinct cell types that perform different operations on their inputs, and send their outputs to distinct targets.  Therefore, a key step in understanding neural systems is to reliably distinguish  cell types.  An important example is the retina, for which present-day techniques for identifying cell types are accurate, but very labor-intensive.  Here, we develop automated classifiers for functional identification of retinal ganglion cells, the output neurons of the retina, based solely on recorded voltage patterns on a large scale array.  We use per-cell classifiers based on features extracted from electrophysiological images (spatiotemporal voltage waveforms) and interspike intervals (autocorrelations). These classifiers achieve high performance in distinguishing between the major ganglion cell classes of the primate retina, but fail in achieving the same accuracy in predicting cell polarities (ON vs. OFF).  We then show how to use indicators of functional coupling within populations of ganglion cells (cross-correlation) to infer cell polarities with a matrix completion algorithm.  This can result in accurate, fully automated methods for cell type classification.
A Recurrent Latent Variable Model for Sequential Data,In this paper, we explore the inclusion of latent random variables into the hidden state of a recurrent neural network (RNN) by combining the elements of the variational autoencoder. We argue that through the use of high-level latent random variables, the variational RNN (VRNN) can model the kind of variability observed in highly structured sequential data such as natural speech. We empirically evaluate the proposed model against other related sequential models on four speech datasets and one handwriting dataset. Our results show the important roles that latent random variables can play in the RNN dynamics.
Deep Knowledge Tracing,Knowledge tracing, where a machine models the knowledge of a student as they interact with coursework, is an established and significantly unsolved problem in computer supported education.In this paper we explore the benefit of using recurrent neural networks to model student learning.This family of models have important advantages over current state of the art methods in that they do not require the explicit encoding of human domain knowledge,and have a far more flexible functional form which can capture substantially more complex student interactions.We show that these neural networks outperform the current state of the art in prediction on real student data,while allowing straightforward interpretation and discovery of structure in the curriculum.These results suggest a promising new line of research for knowledge tracing.
Deep Temporal Sigmoid Belief Networks for Sequence Modeling,Deep dynamic generative models are developed to learn sequential dependencies in time-series data. The multi-layered model is designed by constructing a hierarchy of temporal sigmoid belief networks (TSBNs), defined as a sequential stack of sigmoid belief networks (SBNs). Each SBN has a contextual hidden state, inherited from the previous SBNs in the sequence, and is used to regulate its hidden bias. Scalable learning and inference algorithms are derived by introducing a recognition model that yields fast sampling from the variational posterior. This recognition model is trained jointly with the generative model, by maximizing its variational lower bound on the log-likelihood. Experimental results on bouncing balls, polyphonic music, motion capture, and text streams show that the proposed approach achieves state-of-the-art predictive performance, and has the capacity to synthesize various sequences.
Hidden Technical Debt in Machine Learning Systems,Machine learning offers a fantastically powerful toolkit for building useful complexprediction systems quickly. This paper argues it is dangerous to think ofthese quick wins as coming for free. Using the software engineering frameworkof technical debt, we find it is common to incur massive ongoing maintenancecosts in real-world ML systems. We explore several ML-specific risk factors toaccount for in system design. These include boundary erosion, entanglement,hidden feedback loops, undeclared consumers, data dependencies, configurationissues, changes in the external world, and a variety of system-level anti-patterns.
Statistical Model Criticism using Kernel Two Sample Tests,We propose an exploratory approach to statistical model criticism using maximum mean discrepancy (MMD) two sample tests. Typical approaches to model criticism require a practitioner to select a statistic by which to measure discrepancies between data and a statistical model. MMD two sample tests are instead constructed as an analytic maximisation over a large space of possible statistics and therefore automatically select the statistic which most shows any discrepancy. We demonstrate on synthetic data that the selected statistic, called the witness function, can be used to identify where a statistical model most misrepresents the data it was trained on. We then apply the procedure to real data where the models being assessed are restricted Boltzmann machines, deep belief networks and Gaussian process regression and demonstrate the ways in which these models fail to capture the properties of the data they are trained on.
Calibrated Structured Prediction,In user-facing applications, displaying calibrated confidence measures---probabilities that correspond to true frequency---can be as important as obtaining high accuracy. We are interested in calibration for structured prediction problems such as speech recognition, optical character recognition, and medical diagnosis. Structured prediction presents new challenges for calibration: the output space is large, and users may issue many types of probability queries (e.g., marginals) on the structured output. We extend the notion of calibration so as to handle various subtleties pertaining to the structured setting,  and then provide a simple recalibration method that trains a binary classifier to predict probabilities of interest. We explore a range of features appropriate for structured recalibration, and demonstrate their efficacy on three real-world datasets.
A Bayesian Framework for Modeling Confidence in Perceptual Decision Making,The degree of confidence in one's choice or decision is a critical aspect of perceptual decision making. Attempts to quantify a decision maker's confidence by measuring accuracy in a task have yielded limited success because confidence and accuracy are typically not equal. In this paper, we introduce a Bayesian framework to model confidence in perceptual decision making. We show that this model, based on partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs), is able to predict confidence of a decision maker based only on the data available to the experimenter. We test our model on two experiments on confidence-based decision making involving the well-known random dots motion discrimination task. In both experiments, we show that our model's predictions closely match experimental data. Additionally, our model is also consistent with other phenomena such as the hard-easy effect in perceptual decision making.
Dependent Multinomial Models Made Easy: Stick-Breaking with the Polya-gamma Augmentation,Many practical modeling problems involve discrete data that are best represented as draws from multinomial or categorical distributions. For example, nucleotides in a DNA sequence, children's names in a given state and year, and text documents are all commonly modeled with multinomial distributions.  In all of these cases, we expect some form of dependency between the draws: the nucleotide at one position in the DNA strand may depend on the preceding nucleotides, children's names are highly correlated from year to year, and topics in text may be correlated and dynamic.  These dependencies are not naturally captured by the typical Dirichlet-multinomial formulation.  Here, we leverage a logistic stick-breaking representation and recent innovations in P\'{o}lya-gamma augmentation to reformulate the multinomial distribution in terms of latent variables with jointly Gaussian likelihoods, enabling us to take advantage of a host of Bayesian inference techniques for Gaussian models with minimal overhead.
Scalable Adaptation of State Complexity for Nonparametric Hidden Markov Models,Bayesian nonparametric hidden Markov models are typically learned via fixed truncations of the infinite state space or local Monte Carlo proposals that make small changes to the state space. We develop an inference algorithm for the sticky hierarchical Dirichlet process hidden Markov model that scales to big datasets by processing a few sequences at a time yet allows rapid adaptation of the state space cardinality. Unlike previous point-estimate methods, our novel variational bound penalizes redundant or irrelevant states and thus enables optimization of the state space. Our birth proposals use observed data statistics to create useful new states that escape local optima. Merge and delete proposals remove ineffective states to yield simpler models with more affordable future computations. Experiments on speaker diarization, motion capture, and epigenetic chromatin datasets discover models that are more compact, more interpretable, and better aligned to ground truth segmentations than competitors. We have released an open-source Python implementation which can parallelize local inference steps across sequences.
Robust Feature-Sample Linear Discriminant Analysis for Brain Disorders Diagnosis,A wide spectrum of discriminative methods is increasingly used  in diverse applications for classification or regression tasks. However, many existing discriminative methods assume that the input data is nearly noise-free, which limits their applications to solve real-world problems. Particularly for disease diagnosis, the data acquired by the neuroimaging devices are always prone to different sources of noise. Robust discriminative models are somewhat scarce and only a few attempts have been made to make them robust against noise or outliers. These methods focus on detecting either the sample-outliers or feature-noises. Moreover, they usually use unsupervised de-noising procedures, or separately de-noise the training and the testing data. All these factors may induce biases in the learning process, and thus limit its performance. In this paper, we propose a classification method based on the least-squares formulation of linear discriminant analysis, which simultaneously detects the sample-outliers and feature-noises. The proposed method operates under a semi-supervised setting, in which both labeled training and unlabeled testing data are incorporated to form the intrinsic geometry of the sample space. Therefore, the violating samples or feature values are identified  as sample-outliers or feature-noises, respectively. We test our algorithm on one synthetic and two brain neurodegenerative databases (particularly for Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease). The results demonstrate that our method outperforms all baseline and state-of-the-art methods, in terms of both accuracy and the area under the ROC curve. 
Learning spatiotemporal trajectories from manifold-valued longitudinal data,We propose a Bayesian mixed-effects model to learn typical scenarios of changes from longitudinal manifold-valued data, namely repeated measurements of the same objects or individuals at several points in time. The model allows to estimate a group-average trajectory in the space of measurements. Random variations of this trajectory result from spatiotemporal transformations, which allow changes in the direction of the trajectory and in the pace at which trajectories are followed. The use of the tools of Riemannian geometry allows to derive a generic algorithm for any kind of data with smooth constraints, which lie therefore on a Riemannian manifold. Stochastic approximations of the Expectation-Maximization algorithm is used to estimate the model parameters in this highly non-linear setting.The method is used to estimate a data-driven model of the progressive impairments of cognitive functions during the onset of Alzheimer's disease. Experimental results show that the model correctly put into correspondence the age at which each individual was diagnosed with the disease, thus validating the fact that it effectively estimated a normative scenario of disease progression. Random effects provide unique insights into the variations in the ordering and timing of the succession of cognitive impairments across different individuals.
Hessian-free Optimization for Learning Deep Multidimensional Recurrent Neural Networks,Multidimensional recurrent neural networks (MDRNNs) have shown a remarkable performance in the area of speech and handwriting recognition. The performance of an MDRNN is improved by further increasing its depth, and the difficulty of learning the deeper network is overcome by using Hessian-free (HF) optimization. Given that connectionist temporal classification (CTC) is utilized as an objective of learning an MDRNN for sequence labeling, the non-convexity of  CTC poses a problem when applying HF to the network. As a solution, a convex approximation of CTC is formulated and its relationship with the EM algorithm and the Fisher information matrix is discussed. An MDRNN up to a depth of 15 layers is successfully trained using HF, resulting in an improved performance for sequence labeling.
Scalable Inference for Gaussian Process Models with Black-Box Likelihoods,We propose a sparse method for scalable automated variational inference (AVI) in a large class of models with Gaussian process (GP) priors, multiple latent functions, multiple outputs and non-linear likelihoods. Our approach maintains the statistical efficiency property of the original AVI method, requiring only expectations over univariate Gaussian distributions to approximate the posterior with a mixture of Gaussians. Experiments on small datasets for various problems including  regression, classification, Log Gaussian Cox processes, and warped GPs show that our method can perform as well as the full method under high levels of sparsity. On larger experiments using the MNIST and the SARCOS datasets we show that our method can provide superior performance to previously published scalable approaches that have been handcrafted to specific likelihood models.  
Variational Dropout and the Local Reparameterization Trick,We explore an as yet unexploited opportunity for drastically improving the efficiency of stochastic gradient variational Bayes (SGVB) with global model parameters. Regular SGVB estimators rely on sampling of parameters once per minibatch of data, and have variance that is constant w.r.t. the minibatch size. The efficiency of such estimators can be drastically improved upon by translating uncertainty about global parameters into local noise that is independent across datapoints in the minibatch. Such reparameterizations with local noise can be trivially parallelized and have variance that is inversely proportional to the minibatch size, generally leading to much faster convergence.We find an important connection with regularization by dropout: the original Gaussian dropout objective corresponds to SGVB with local noise, a scale-invariant prior and proportionally fixed posterior variance. Our method allows inference of more flexibly parameterized posteriors; specifically, we propose \emph{variational dropout}, a generalization of Gaussian dropout, but with a more flexibly parameterized posterior, often leading to better generalization. The method is demonstrated through several experiments.
Infinite Factorial Dynamical Model,We propose the infinite factorial dynamic model (iFDM), a general Bayesian nonparametric model for source separation. Our model builds on the Markov Indian buffet process to consider a potentially unbounded number of hidden Markov chains (sources) that evolve independently according to some dynamics, in which the state space can be either discrete or continuous. For posterior inference, we develop an algorithm based on particle Gibbs with ancestor sampling that can be efficiently applied to a wide range of source separation problems. We evaluate the performance of our iFDM on four well-known applications: multitarget tracking, cocktail party,  power disaggregation, and multiuser detection. Our experimental results show that our approach for source separation does not only outperform previous approaches, but it can also handle problems that were computationally intractable for existing approaches.
Variational Information Maximisation for Intrinsically Motivated Reinforcement Learning,The mutual information is a core statistical quantity that has applications in all areas of machine learning, whether this is in training of density models over multiple data modalities, in maximising the efficiency of noisy transmission channels, or when learning behaviour policies for exploration by artificial agents. Most learning algorithms that involve optimisation of the mutual information rely on the Blahut-Arimoto algorithm --- an enumerative algorithm with exponential complexity that is not suitable for modern machine learning applications. This paper provides a new approach for scalable optimisation of the mutual information by merging techniques from variational inference and deep learning. We develop our approach by focusing on the problem of intrinsically-motivated learning, where the mutual information forms the definition of a well-known internal drive known as empowerment. Using a variational lower bound on the mutual information, combined with convolutional networks for handling visual input streams, we develop a stochastic optimisation algorithm that allows for scalable information maximisation and empowerment-based reasoning directly from pixels to actions.
Copula variational inference,We develop a general variational inference method that preserves dependency among the latent variables. Our method uses copulas to augment the families of distributions used in mean-field and structured approximations. Copulas model the dependency that is not captured by the original variational distribution, and thus the augmented variational family guarantees better approximations to the posterior. With stochastic optimization, inference on the augmented distribution is scalable. Furthermore, our strategy is generic: it can be applied to any inference procedure that currently uses the mean-field or structured approach. Copula variational inference has many advantages: it reduces bias; it is less sensitive to local optima; it is less sensitive to hyperparameters; and it helps characterize and interpret the dependency among the latent variables.
Fast Second Order Stochastic Backpropagation for Variational Inference,We propose a second-order (Hessian or Hessian-free) based optimization method for variational inference inspired by Gaussian backpropagation, and argue that quasi-Newton optimization can be developed as well.  This is accomplished by generalizing the gradient computation in stochastic backpropagation via a reparametrization trick with lower complexity. As an illustrative example, we apply this approach to the problems of Bayesian logistic regression and variational auto-encoder (VAE). Additionally, we compute bounds on the estimator variance of intractable expectations for the family  of Lipschitz continuous function. Our method is practical, scalable and model free. We demonstrate our method on several real-world datasets and provide comparisons with other stochastic gradient methods to show substantial enhancement in convergence rates.
Rethinking LDA: Moment Matching for Discrete ICA,We consider moment matching techniques for estimation in Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). By drawing explicit links between LDA and discrete versions of independent component analysis (ICA), we first derive a new set of cumulant-based tensors, with an improved sample complexity. Moreover, we reuse standard ICA techniques such as joint diagonalization of tensors to improve over existing methods based on the tensor power method. In an extensive set of experiments on both synthetic and real datasets, we show that our new combination of tensors and orthogonal joint diagonalization techniques outperforms existing moment matching methods.
Model-Based Relative Entropy Stochastic Search,Stochastic search algorithms are general black-box optimizers. Due to their ease of use and their generality, they have recently also gained a lot of attention in operations research, machine learning and policy search. Yet, these algorithms require a lot of evaluations of the objective, scale poorly with the problem dimension, are affected by highly noisy objective functions and may converge prematurely. To alleviate these problems, we introduce a new surrogate-based stochastic search approach. We learn simple, quadratic surrogate models of the objective function. As the quality of such a quadratic approximation is limited, we do not greedily exploit the learned models. The algorithm can be misled by an inaccurate optimum introduced by the surrogate. Instead, we use information theoretic constraints to bound the `distance' between the new and old data distribution while maximizing the objective function. Additionally the new method is able to sustain the exploration of the search distribution to avoid premature convergence. We compare our method with state of art black-box optimization methods on standard uni-modal and multi-modal optimization functions, on simulated planar robot tasks and a complex robot ball throwing task.The proposed method considerably outperforms the existing approaches.
Supervised Learning for Dynamical System Learning,Recently there has been substantial interest in spectral methods for learning dynamical systems. These methods are popular since they often offer a good tradeoffbetween computational and statistical efficiency. Unfortunately, they can be difficult to use and extend in practice: e.g., they can make it difficult to incorporateprior information such as sparsity or structure. To address this problem, we presenta new view of dynamical system learning: we show how to learn dynamical systems by solving a sequence of ordinary supervised learning problems, therebyallowing users to incorporate prior knowledge via standard techniques such asL 1 regularization. Many existing spectral methods are special cases of this newframework, using linear regression as the supervised learner. We demonstrate theeffectiveness of our framework by showing examples where nonlinear regressionor lasso let us learn better state representations than plain linear regression does;the correctness of these instances follows directly from our general analysis.
Expectation Particle Belief Propagation,We propose an original particle-based implementation of the Loopy Belief Propagation (LPB) algorithm for pairwise Markov Random Fields (MRF) on a continuous state space. The algorithm constructs adaptively efficient proposal distributions approximating the local beliefs  at each note of the MRF. This is achieved by considering proposal distributions in the exponential family whose parameters are updated iterately in an Expectation Propagation (EP) framework. The proposed particle scheme provides consistent estimation of the LBP marginals as the number of particles increases. We demonstrate that it provides more accurate results than the Particle Belief Propagation (PBP) algorithm of Ihler and McAllester (2009) at a fraction of the computational cost and is additionally more robust empirically. The computational complexity of our algorithm at each iteration is quadratic in the number of particles. We also propose an accelerated implementation with sub-quadratic computational complexity which still provides consistent estimates of the loopy BP marginal distributions and performs almost as well as the original procedure.
Embedding Inference for Structured Multilabel Prediction,A key bottleneck in structured output prediction is the need for inference during training and testing, usually requiring some form of dynamic programming.  Rather than using approximate inference or tailoring a specialized inference method for a particular structure---standard responses to the scaling challenge---we propose to embed prediction constraints directly into the learned representation.  By eliminating the need for explicit inference a more scalable approach to structured output prediction can be achieved, particularly at test time.  We demonstrate the idea for multi-label prediction under subsumption and mutual exclusion constraints,  where a relationship to maximum margin structured output prediction can be established.  Experiments demonstrate that the benefits of structured output training can still be realized even after inference has been eliminated. 
Tractable Learning for Complex Probability Queries,Tractable learning aims to learn probabilistic models where inference is guaranteed to be efficient. However, the particular class of queries that is tractable depends on the model and underlying representation.  Usually this class is MPE or conditional probabilities $\Pr(\xs|\ys)$ for joint assignments~$\xs,\ys$. We propose a tractable learner that guarantees efficient inference for a broader class of queries. It simultaneously learns a Markov network and its tractable circuit representation, in order to guarantee and measure tractability. Our approach differs from earlier work by using Sentential Decision Diagrams (SDD) as the tractable language instead of Arithmetic Circuits (AC). SDDs have desirable properties, which more general representations such as ACs lack, that enable basic primitives for Boolean circuit compilation. This allows us to support a broader class of complex probability queries, including counting, threshold, and parity, in polytime.
Double or Nothing: Multiplicative Incentive Mechanisms for Crowdsourcing,Crowdsourcing has gained immense popularity in machine learning applications for obtaining large amounts of labeled data. Crowdsourcing is cheap and fast, but suffers from the problem of low-quality data. To address this fundamental challenge in crowdsourcing, we propose a simple payment mechanism to incentivize workers to answer only the questions that they are sure of and skip the rest. We show that surprisingly, under a mild and natural "no-free-lunch" requirement, this mechanism is the one and only incentive-compatible payment mechanism possible. We also show that among all possible incentive-compatible  mechanisms (that may or may not satisfy no-free-lunch), our mechanism makes the smallest possible payment to spammers.  Interestingly, this unique mechanism takes a "multiplicative" form. The simplicity of the mechanism is an added benefit.  In preliminary experiments involving over several hundred workers, we observe a significant reduction in the error rates under our unique mechanism for the same or lower monetary expenditure.
Local Expectation Gradients for Black Box Variational Inference,We introduce local expectation gradients which is a general purpose stochastic variational inference algorithm for constructing stochastic gradients by sampling from the variational distribution. This algorithm divides the problem of estimating the stochastic gradients over multiple variational parameters into smaller sub-tasks so that each sub-task explores intelligently the most relevant part of the variational distribution. This is achieved by performing an exact expectation over the single random variable that most correlates with the variational parameter of interest resulting in a Rao-Blackwellized estimate that has low variance. Our method works efficiently for both continuous and discrete random variables. Furthermore, the proposed algorithm has interesting similarities with Gibbs sampling but at the same time, unlike Gibbs sampling, can be trivially parallelized.
Learning with a Wasserstein Loss,Learning to predict multi-label outputs is challenging, but in many problems there is a natural metric on the outputs that can be used to improve predictions. In this paper we develop a loss function for multi-label learning, based on the Wasserstein distance. The Wasserstein distance provides a natural notion of dissimilarity for probability measures. Although optimizing with respect to the exact Wasserstein distance is costly, recent work has described a regularized approximation that is efficiently computed. We describe an efficient learning algorithm based on this regularization, as well as a novel extension of the Wasserstein distance from probability measures to unnormalized measures. We also describe a statistical learning bound for the loss. The Wasserstein loss can encourage smoothness of the predictions with respect to a chosen metric on the output space. We demonstrate this property on a real-data tag prediction problem, using the Yahoo Flickr Creative Commons dataset, outperforming a baseline that doesn't use the metric.
Principal Geodesic Analysis for Probability Measures under the Optimal Transport Metric,We consider in this work the space of probability measures $P(X)$ on a Hilbert space $X$ endowed with the 2-Wasserstein metric. Given a finite family of probability measures in $P(X)$, we propose an iterative approach to compute geodesic principal components that summarize efficiently that dataset. The 2-Wasserstein metric provides $P(X)$ with a Riemannian structure and associated concepts (Fr\'echet mean, geodesics, tangent vectors) which prove crucial to follow the intuitive approach laid out by standard principal component analysis. To make our approach feasible, we propose to use an alternative parameterization of geodesics proposed by \citet[\S 9.2]{ambrosio2006gradient}. These \textit{generalized} geodesics are parameterized with two velocity fields defined on the support of the Wasserstein mean of the data, each pointing towards an ending point of the generalized geodesic. The resulting optimization problem of finding principal components is solved by adapting a projected gradient descend method. Experiment results show the ability of the computed principal components to capture axes of variability on histograms and probability measures data.
Fast and Accurate Inference of PlackettLuce Models,We show that the maximum-likelihood (ML) estimate of models derived from Luce's choice axiom (e.g., the Plackett-Luce model) can be expressed as the stationary distribution of a Markov chain. This conveys insight into several recently proposed spectral inference algorithms. We take advantage of this perspective and formulate a new spectral algorithm that is significantly more accurate than previous ones for the Plackett--Luce model. With a simple adaptation, this algorithm can be used iteratively, producing a sequence of estimates that converges to the ML estimate. The ML version runs faster than competing approaches on a benchmark of five datasets. Our algorithms are easy to implement, making them relevant for practitioners at large.
BACKSHIFT: Learning causal cyclic graphs from unknown shift interventions,We propose a simple method to learn linear causal cyclic models in the presence of latent variables. The method relies on equilibrium data of the model recorded under a specific kind of interventions (``shift interventions''). The location and strength of these interventions do not have to be known and can be estimated from the data. Our method, called BACKSHIFT, only uses second moments of the data and performs simple joint matrix diagonalization, applied to differences between covariance matrices. We give a sufficient and necessary condition for identifiability of the system, which is fulfilled almost surely under some quite general assumptions if and only if there are at least three distinct experimental settings, one of which can be pure observational data. We demonstrate the performance on some simulated data and applications in flow cytometry and financial time series.
Learning with Relaxed Supervision,For weakly-supervised problems with deterministic constraints between the latent variables and observed output, learning necessitates performing inference over latent variables conditioned on the output, which can be intractable no matter how simple the model family is. Even finding a single latent variable setting that satisfies the constraints could be difficult; for instance, the observed output may be the result of a latent database query or graphics program which must be inferred. Here, the difficulty lies in not the model but the supervision, and poor approximations at this stage could lead to following the wrong learning signal entirely. In this paper, we develop a rigorous approach to relaxing the supervision, which yields asymptotically consistent parameter estimates despite altering the supervision. Our approach parameterizes a family of increasingly accurate relaxations, and jointly optimizes both the model and relaxation parameters, while formulating constraints between these parameters to ensure efficient inference. These efficiency constraints allow us to learn in otherwise intractable settings, while asymptotic consistency ensures that we always follow a valid learning signal.
M-Statistic for Kernel Change-Point Detection,Detecting the emergence of an abrupt change-point is a classic problem in statistics and machine learning. Kernel-based nonparametric statistics have been proposed for this task which make fewer assumptions on the distributions than traditional parametric approach. However, none of the existing kernel statistics has provided a computationally efficient way to characterize the extremal behavior of the statistic. Such characterization is crucial for setting the detection threshold, to control the significance level in the offline case as well as the average run length in the online case. In this paper we propose two related computationally efficient M-statistics for kernel-based change-point detection when the amount of background data is large. A novel theoretical result of the paper is the characterization of the tail probability of these statistics using a new technique based on change-of-measure. Such characterization provides us accurate detection thresholds for both offline and online cases in computationally efficient manner, without the need to resort to the more expensive simulations such as bootstrapping. We show that our methods perform well in both synthetic and real world data.  
Fast Two-Sample Testing with Analytic Representations of Probability Measures,We propose a class of nonparametric two-sample tests with a cost linear in the sample size. Two tests are given, both  based on an ensemble of distances between analytic functions representing each of the distributions. The first test uses smoothed empirical characteristic functions to represent the distributions, the second uses distribution embeddings in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. Analyticity implies that differences in the distributions may be detected almost surely at a finite number of randomly chosen locations/frequencies. The new tests are consistent against a larger class of alternatives than the previous linear-time tests based on the (non-smoothed) empirical characteristic functions, while being much faster than the current state-of-the-art quadratic-time kernel-based or energy distance-based tests. Experiments on artificial benchmarks and on challenging real-world testing problems demonstrate that our tests give a better power/time tradeoff than  competing approaches, and in some cases, better outright power than even the most expensive quadratic-time tests. This performance advantage is retained even in high dimensions, and in cases where the difference in distributions is not observable with low order statistics. 
Adversarial Prediction Games for Multivariate Losses,Multivariate loss functions are used to assess performance in many modern prediction tasks, including information retrieval and ranking applications. Convex approximations are typically optimized in their place to avoid NP-hard empirical risk minimization problems. We propose to approximate the training data instead of the loss function by posing multivariate prediction as an adversarial game between a loss-minimizing prediction player and a loss-maximizing evaluation player constrained to match specified properties of training data. This avoids the non-convexity of empirical risk minimization, but game sizes are exponential in the number of predicted variables. We overcome this intractability using the double oracle constraint generation method. We demonstrate the efficiency and predictive performance of our approach on tasks evaluated using the precision at k, the F-score and the discounted cumulative gain.
Regressive Virtual Metric Learning,We are interested in supervised metric learning of Mahalanobis like distances. Existing approaches mainly focus on learning a new distance using similarity and dissimilarity constraints between examples. In this paper, instead of bringing closer examples of the same class and pushing far away examples of different classes we propose to move the examples with respect to virtual points. Hence, each example is brought closer to a a priori defined virtual point reducing the number of constraints to satisfy. We show that our approach admits a closed form solution which can be kernelized. We provide a theoretical analysis showing the consistency of the approach and establishing some links with other classical metric learning methods. Furthermore we propose an efficient solution to the difficult problem of selecting virtual points based in part on recent works in optimal transport. Lastly, we evaluate our approach on several state of the art datasets.
Halting in Random Walk Kernels,Random walk kernels measure graph similarity by counting matching walks in two graphs. In their most popular form of geometric random walk kernels, longer walks of length $k$ are downweighted by a factor of $\lambda^k$ ($\lambda < 1$) to ensure convergence of the corresponding geometric series. We know from the field of link prediction that this downweighting often leads to a phenomenon referred to as halting: Longer walks are downweighted so much that the similarity score is completely dominated by the comparison of walks of length 1. This is a naive kernel between edges and vertices. We theoretically show that halting may occur in geometric random walk kernels. We also empirically quantify its impact in simulated datasets and popular graph classification benchmark datasets. Our findings promise to be instrumental in future graph kernel development and applications of random walk kernels.
Rate-Agnostic (Causal) Structure Learning,Causal structure learning from time series data is a major scientific challenge.  Existing algorithms assume that measurements occur sufficiently quickly; more precisely, they assume that the system and measurement timescales are approximately equal. In many scientific domains, however, measurements occur at a significantly slower rate than the underlying system changes.  Moreover, the size of the mismatch between timescales is often unknown. This paper provides three distinct causal structure learning algorithms, all of which discover all dynamic graphs that could explain the observed measurement data as arising from undersampling at some rate. That is, these algorithms all learn causal structure without assuming any particular relation between the measurement and system timescales; they are thus "rate-agnostic." We apply these algorithms to data from simulations. The results provide insight into the challenge of undersampling.
Online Prediction at the Limit of Zero Temperature,We design an online algorithm to classify the vertices of a graph.   Underpinning the algorithm is the probability distribution of an  Ising model isomorphic to the graph.   Each classification is based on predicting the label with maximum marginal probability in the limit of zero-temperature with respect to the labels and vertices seen so far.  Computing these classifications is unfortunately based on a $\#P$-complete problem.  This motivates us to develop an algorithm for which we give a sequential guarantee in the online mistake bound framework.    Our algorithm is optimal when the graph is a tree matching the prior results in [1].For a general graph, the algorithm exploits the additional connectivity over a tree to provide a per-cluster bound. The algorithm is efficient as the cumulative time to sequentially predict all of the vertices of the graph is quadratic in the size of the graph.
Lifted Symmetry Detection and Breaking for MAP Inference,Symmetry breaking is a technique for speeding up propositional satisfiability testing by adding constraints to the theory that restrict the search space while preserving satisfiability. In this work, we extend symmetry breaking to the problem of model finding in weighted and unweighted relational theories, a class of problems that includes MAP inference in Markov Logic and similar statistical-relational languages. We introduce term symmetries, which are induced by an evidence set and extend to symmetries over a relational theory. We provide the important special case of term equivalent symmetries, showing that such symmetries can be found in low-degree polynomial time. We show how to break an exponential number of these symmetries with added constraints that are linear in the size of the domain. We demonstrate the effectiveness of these techniques through experiments in two relational domains. We also discuss the connections between relational symmetry breaking and work on lifted inference in statistical-relational reasoning.
Bandits with Unobserved Confounders: A Causal Approach,The Multi-Armed Bandit problem constitutes an archetypal setting for sequential decision-making, permeating multiple domains including engineering, business, and medicine. One of the hallmarks of a bandit setting is the agent's capacity to explore its environment through active intervention, which contrasts with the ability to collect passive data by estimating associational relationships between actions and payouts. The existence of unobserved confounders, namely unmeasured variables affecting both the action and the outcome variables, implies that these two data-collection modes will in general not coincide. In this paper, we show that formalizing this distinction has conceptual and algorithmic implications to the bandit setting. The current generation of bandit algorithms implicitly try to maximize rewards based on estimation of the experimental distribution, which we show is not always the best strategy to pursue. Indeed, to achieve low regret in certain realistic classes of bandit problems (namely, in the face of unobserved confounders), both experimental and observational quantities are required by the rational agent. After this realization, we propose an optimization metric (employing both experimental and observational distributions) that bandit agents should pursue, and illustrate its benefits over traditional algorithms.
Sample Complexity Bounds for Iterative Stochastic Policy Optimization,This paper is concerned with robustness analysis of decision making under uncertainty. We consider a class of iterative stochastic policy optimization problems and analyze the resulting expected performance for each newly updated policy at each iteration. In particular, we employ concentration-of-measure inequalities to compute future expected cost and probability of constraint violation using empirical runs. A novel inequality bound is derived that accounts for the possibly unbounded change-of-measure likelihood ratio resulting from iterative policy adaptation. The bound serves as a high-confidence certificate for providing future performance or safety guarantees. The approach is illustrated with a simple robot control scenario and initial steps towards applications to challenging aerial vehicle navigation problems are presented. 
Basis refinement strategies for linear value function approximation in MDPs,We provide a theoretical framework for analyzing basis function construction for linear value function approximation in Markov Decision Processes (MDPs). We show that important existing methods, such as Krylov bases and Bellman-error-based methods are a special case of the general framework we develop. We provide a general algorithmic framework for computing basis function refinements which respect the dynamics of the environment, and we derive approximation error bounds that apply for any algorithm respecting this general framework. We also show how, using ideas related to bisimulation metrics, one can translate basis refinement into a process of finding prototypes that are diverse enough to represent the given MDP.
On the Convergence of Stochastic Gradient MCMC Algorithms with High-Order Integrators,Recent advances in Bayesian learning with large-scale data have witnessed emergence of stochastic gradient MCMC algorithms (SG-MCMC), such as stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics (SGLD), stochastic gradient Hamiltonian MCMC (SGHMC), and the stochastic gradient thermostat. While finite-time convergence properties of the SGLD with a 1st-order Euler integrator have recently been studied, corresponding theory for general SG-MCMCs has not been explored. In this paper we consider general SG-MCMCs with high-order integrators, and develop theory to analyze finite-time convergence properties and their asymptotic invariant measures. Our theoretical results show faster convergence rates and more accurate invariant measures for SG-MCMCs with higher-order integrators. For example, with the proposed efficient 2nd-order symmetric splitting integrator, the mean square error (MSE) of the posterior average for the SGHMC achieves an optimal convergence rate of $L^{-4/5}$ at $L$ iterations, compared to $L^{-2/3}$ for the SGHMC and SGLD with 1st-order Euler integrators. Furthermore, convergence results of decreasing-step-size SG-MCMCs are also developed, with the same convergence rates as their fixed-step-size counterparts for a specific decreasing sequence. Experiments on both synthetic and real datasets verify our theory, and show advantages of the proposed method in two large-scale real applications.
An Active Learning Framework using Sparse-Graph Codes for Sparse Polynomials and Graph Sketching,Let $f: \{-1,1\}^n \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ be an $n$-variate polynomial consisting of $2^n$ monomials, in which only $s\ll 2^n$ coefficients are non-zero. The goal is to learn the polynomial by querying the values of $f$. We introduce an active learning framework that is associated with a low query cost and computational runtime. The significant savings are enabled by leveraging sampling strategies based on modern coding theory, specifically, the design and analysis of {\it sparse-graph codes}, such as Low-Density-Parity-Check (LDPC) codes, which represent the state-of-the-art of modern packet communications. More significantly, we show how this design perspective leads to exciting, and to the best of our knowledge, largely unexplored intellectual connections between learning and coding. The key is to relax the worst-case assumption with an ensemble-average setting, where the polynomial is assumed to be drawn uniformly at random from the ensemble of all polynomials (of a given size $n$ and sparsity $s$). Our framework succeeds with high probability with respect to the polynomial ensemble with sparsity up to $s={O}(2^{\delta n})$ for any $\delta\in(0,1)$, where $f$ is exactly learned using ${O}(ns)$ queries in time ${O}(n s \log s)$, even if the queries are perturbed by Gaussian noise. We further apply the proposed framework to graph sketching, which is the problem of inferring sparse graphs by querying graph cuts. By writing the cut function as a polynomial and exploiting the graph structure, we propose a sketching algorithm to learn the an arbitrary $n$-node unknown graph using only few cut queries, which scales {\it almost linearly} in the number of edges and {\it sub-linearly} in the graph size $n$. Experiments on real datasets show significant reductions in the runtime and query complexity compared with competitive schemes.
Discrete Rnyi Classifiers,Consider the binary classification problem of predicting a target variable Y from a discrete feature vector X = (X1,...,Xd). When the probability distribution P(X,Y) is known, the optimal classifier, leading to the minimum misclassification rate, is given by the Maximum A-posteriori Probability (MAP) decision rule. However, in practice, estimating the complete joint distribution P(X,Y) is computationally and statistically impossible for large values of d. Therefore, an alternative approach is to first estimate some low order marginals of the joint probability distribution P(X,Y) and then design the classifier based on the estimated low order marginals. This approach is also helpful when the complete training data instances are not available due to privacy concerns. In this work, we consider the problem of designing the optimum classifier based on some estimated low order marginals of (X,Y). We prove that for a given set of marginals, the minimum Hirschfeld-Gebelein-Renyi (HGR) correlation principle introduced in [1] leads to a randomized classification rule which is shown to have a misclassification rate no larger than twice the misclassification rate of the optimal classifier. Then, we show that under a separability condition, the proposed algorithm is equivalent to a randomized linear regression approach which naturally results in a robust feature selection method selecting a subset of features having the maximum worst case HGR correlation with the target variable. Our theoretical upper-bound is similar to the recent Discrete Chebyshev Classifier (DCC) approach [2], while the proposed algorithm has significant computational advantages since it only requires solving a least square optimization problem. Finally, we numerically compare our proposed algorithm with the DCC classifier and show that the proposed algorithm results in better misclassification rate over various UCI data repository datasets.
GAP Safe screening rules for sparse multi-task and multi-class models,High dimensional regression benefits from sparsity promoting regularizations. Screening rules leverage the known sparsity of the solution by ignoring some variables in the optimization, hence speeding up solvers. When the procedure is proven not to discard features wrongly the rules are said to be safe. In this paper we derive new safe rules for generalized linear models regularized with L1 and L1/L2 norms. The rules are based on duality gap computations and spherical safe regions whose diameters converge to zero. This allows to discard safely more variables, in particular for low regularization parameters. The GAP Safe rule can cope with any iterative solver and we illustrate its performance on coordinate descent for multi-task Lasso, binary and multinomial logistic regression, demonstrating significant speed ups on all tested datasets with respect to previous safe rules.
Decomposition Bounds for Marginal MAP,Marginal MAP inference involves making MAP predictions in systems defined with latent variables or missing information. It is significantly more difficult than pure marginalization and MAP tasks, for which a large class of efficient and convergent variational algorithms, such as dual decomposition, exist.  In this work, we generalize dual decomposition to a generic powered-sum inference task, which includes marginal MAP, along with pure marginalization and MAP, as special cases.  Our method is based on a block coordinate descent algorithm on a new convex decomposition bound, that is guaranteed to converge monotonically, and can be parallelized efficiently.  We demonstrate our approach on various inference queries over real-world problems from the UAI approximate inference challenge, showing that our framework is faster and more reliable than previous methods.
Anytime Influence Bounds and the Explosive Behavior of Continuous-Time Diffusion Networks,The paper studies transition phenomena in information cascades observed along a diffusion process over some graph. We introduce the Laplace Hazard matrix and show that its spectral radius fully characterizes the dynamics of the contagion both in terms of influence and of explosion time. Using this concept, we prove tight non-asymptotic bounds for the influence of a set of nodes, and we also provide an in-depth analysis of the critical time after which the contagion becomes super-critical. Our contributions include formal definitions and tight lower bounds of critical explosion time. We illustrate the relevance of our theoretical results through several examples of information cascades used in epidemiology and viral marketing models. Finally, we provide a series of numerical experiments for various types of networks which confirm the tightness of the theoretical bounds.
Estimating Mixture Models via Mixtures of Polynomials,Mixture modeling is a general technique for making any simple model more expressive through weighted combination.  This generality and simplicity in part explains the success of the Expectation Maximization (EM) algorithm, in which updates are easy to derive for a wide class of mixture models.  However, the likelihood of a mixture model is non-convex, so EM has no known global convergence guarantees.  Recently, method of moments approaches offer global guarantees for some mixture models, but they do not extend easily to the range of mixture models that exist.  In this work, we present Polymom, an unifying framework based on method of moments in which estimation procedures are easily derivable, just as in EM. Polymom is applicable when the moments of a single mixture component are polynomials of the parameters. Our key observation is that the moments of the mixture model are a mixture of these polynomials, which allows us to cast estimation as a Generalized Moment Problem.  We solve its relaxations using semidefinite optimization, and then extract parameters using ideas from computer algebra.  This framework allows us to draw insights and apply tools from convex optimization, computer algebra and the theory of moments to study problems in statistical estimation.  Simulations show good empirical performance on several models.
Robust Gaussian Graphical Modeling with the Trimmed Graphical Lasso,Gaussian Graphical Models (GGMs) are popular tools for studying network structures. However, many modern applications such as gene network discovery and social interactions analysis often involve high-dimensional noisy data with outliers or heavier tails than the Gaussian distribution. In this paper, we propose the Trimmed Graphical Lasso for robust estimation of sparse GGMs.  Our method guards against outliers by an implicit trimming mechanism akin to the popular Least Trimmed Squares method used for linear regression. We provide a rigorous statistical analysis of our estimator in the high-dimensional setting. In contrast, existing approaches for robust sparse GGMs estimation lack statistical guarantees. Our theoretical results are complemented by experiments on simulated and real gene expression data which further demonstrate the value of our approach.
Matrix Completion from Fewer Entries: Spectral Detectability and Rank Estimation,The completion of low rank matrices from few entries is a task with many practical applications. We consider here two aspects of this problem: detectability, i.e. the ability to estimate the rank $r$ reliably from the fewest possible random entries, and performance in achieving small reconstruction error. We propose a spectral algorithm for these two tasks called MaCBetH (for Matrix Completion with the Bethe Hessian). The rank is estimated as the number of negative eigenvalues of the Bethe Hessian matrix, and the corresponding eigenvectors are used as initial condition for the minimization of the discrepancy between the estimated matrix and the revealed entries.  We analyze the performance in a random matrix setting using results from the statistical mechanics of the Hopfield neural network, and show in particular that MaCBetH efficiently detects the rank $r$ of a large $n\times m$ matrix from $C(r)r\sqrt{nm}$ entries, where $C(r)$ is a constant close to $1$.  We also evaluate the corresponding root-mean-square error empirically and show that MaCBetH compares favorably to other existing approaches.
Robust PCA with compressed data,The robust principal component analysis (RPCA) problem seeks to separate low-rank trends from sparse outlierswithin a data matrix, that is, to approximate a $n\times d$ matrix $D$ as the sum of a low-rank matrix $L$ and a sparse matrix $S$.We examine the robust principal component analysis (RPCA) problem under data compression, wherethe data $Y$ is approximately given by $(L + S)\cdot C$, that is, a low-rank $+$ sparse data matrix that has been compressed to size $n\times m$ (with $m$ substantially smaller than the original dimension $d$) via multiplication witha compression matrix $C$. We give a convex program for recovering the sparse component $S$ along with the compressed low-rank component $L\cdot C$, along with upper bounds on the error of this reconstructionthat scales naturally with the compression dimension $m$ and coincides with existing results for the uncompressedsetting $m=d$. Our results can also handle error introduced through additive noise or through missing data.The scaling of dimension, compression, and signal complexity in our theoretical results is verified empirically through simulations, and we also apply our method to a data set measuring chlorine concentration acrossa network of sensors, to test its performance in practice.
Mixed Robust/Average Submodular Partitioning: Fast Algorithms, Guarantees, and Applications,We investigate two novel mixed robust/average-case submodular data partitioning problems that we collectively call Submodular Partitioning. These problems generalize purely robust instances of the problem, namely max-min submodular fair allocation (SFA) and \emph{min-max submodular load balancing} (SLB), and also average-case instances, that is the submodular welfare problem (SWP) and submodular multiway partition (SMP). While the robust versions have been studied in the theory community, existing work has focused on tight approximation guarantees, and the resultant algorithms are not generally scalable to large real-world applications. This contrasts the average case instances, where most of the algorithms are scalable.  In the present paper, we bridge this gap, by proposing several new algorithms (including greedy, majorization-minimization, minorization-maximization, and relaxation algorithms) that not only scale to large datasets but that also achieve theoretical approximation guarantees comparable to the state-of-the-art. We moreover provide new scalable algorithms that apply to additive combinations of the robust and average-case objectives. We show that these problems have many applications in machine learning (ML), including data partitioning and load balancing for distributed ML, data clustering, and image segmentation. We empirically demonstrate the efficacy of our algorithms on real-world problems involving data partitioning for distributed optimization (of convex and deep neural network objectives), and also purely unsupervised image segmentation.
Subspace Clustering with Irrelevant Features via Robust Dantzig Selector ,This paper considers the subspace clustering problem where the data contains irrelevant or corrupted features. We propose a method termed ``robust Dantzig selector'' which can successfully identify the clustering structure even with the presence of irrelevant features. The idea is simple yet powerful: we replace the inner product by its robust counterpart, which is insensitive to the irrelevant features given an upper bound of the number of irrelevant features. We establish theoretical guarantees for the algorithm to identify the correct subspace, and demonstrate the effectiveness of the algorithm via numerical simulations. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first method developed to tackle subspace clustering with irrelevant features. 
A class of network models recoverable by spectral clustering,Finding communities in networks is a problem that remains difficult, in spite of the amount of attention it has recently received. The Stochastic Block-Model (SBM) is a generative model for graphs with "communities" for which, because of its simplicity, the theoretical understanding has advanced fast in recent years. In particular, there have been various results showing that simple versions of spectralclustering using the Normalized Laplacian of the graph can recoverthe communities almost perfectly with high probability. Here we show that essentially the same algorithm used for the SBM and for its extension called Degree-Corrected SBM, works on a wider class of Block-Models, which we call Preference Frame Models, with essentially the same guarantees. Moreover, the parametrization we introduce clearly exhibits the free parameters needed to specify this class of models, and results in bounds that expose with more clarity the parameters that control the recovery error in this model class.
Monotone k-Submodular Function Maximization with Size Constraints,A $k$-submodular function is a generalization of a submodular function, where the input consists of $k$ disjoint subsets, instead of a single subset, of the domain.Many machine learning problems, including influence maximization with $k$ kinds of topics and sensor placement with $k$ kinds of sensors, can be naturally modeled as the problem of maximizing monotone $k$-submodular functions.In this paper, we give constant-factor approximation algorithms for maximizing monotone $k$-submodular functions subject to several size constraints.The running time of our algorithms are almost linear in the domain size.We experimentally demonstrate that our algorithms outperform baseline algorithms in terms of the solution quality.
Smooth and Strong: MAP Inference with Linear Convergence,Maximum a-posteriori (MAP) inference is an important task for many applications. Although the standard formulation gives rise to a hard combinatorial optimization problem, several effective approximations have been proposed and studied in recent years. We focus on linear programming (LP) relaxations, which have achieved state-of-the-art performance in many applications. However, optimization of the resulting program is in general challenging due to non-smoothness and complex non-separable constraints.Therefore, in this work we study the benefits of augmenting the objective function of the relaxation with strong convexity. Specifically, we introduce strong convexity by adding a quadratic term to the LP relaxation objective. We provide theoretical guarantees for the resulting programs, bounding the difference between their optimal value and the original optimum. Further, we propose suitable optimization algorithms and analyze their convergence.
StopWasting My Gradients: Practical SVRG,We present and analyze several strategies for improving the performance ofstochastic variance-reduced gradient (SVRG) methods. We first show that theconvergence rate of these methods can be preserved under a decreasing sequenceof errors in the control variate, and use this to derive variants of SVRG that usegrowing-batch strategies to reduce the number of gradient calculations requiredin the early iterations. We further (i) show how to exploit support vectors to reducethe number of gradient computations in the later iterations, (ii) prove that thecommonlyused regularized SVRG iteration is justified and improves the convergencerate, (iii) consider alternate mini-batch selection strategies, and (iv) considerthe generalization error of the method.
Spectral Norm Regularization of Orthonormal Representations for Graph Transduction,Recent literature~\cite{ando} suggests that embedding a graph on an unit sphere leads to better generalization for graph transduction. However, the choice of optimal embedding and an efficient algorithm to compute the same remains open. In this paper, we show that orthonormal representations, a class of unit-sphere graph embeddings are PAC learnable. Existing PAC-based analysis do not  apply as the VC dimension of the function class is infinite. We propose an alternative PAC-based bound, which do not depend on the VC dimension of the underlying function class, but is related to the famous Lov\'{a}sz~$\vartheta$ function. The main contribution of the paper is SPORE, a SPectral regularized ORthonormal Embedding for graph transduction, derived from the PAC bound. SPORE is posed as a non-smooth convex function over an \emph{elliptope}. These problems are usually solved as semi-definite programs (SDPs) with time complexity $O(n^6)$.  We present,  Infeasible Inexact proximal~(IIP): an Inexact proximal method which performs subgradient procedure on an approximate projection, not necessarily feasible. IIP is more scalable than SDP, has an $O(\frac{1}{\sqrt{T}})$ convergence, and is generally applicable whenever a suitable approximate projection is available. We use IIP to compute SPORE where the approximate projection step is computed by FISTA, an accelerated gradient descent procedure. We show that the method has a convergence rate of $O(\frac{1}{\sqrt{T}})$. The proposed algorithm easily scales to 1000's of vertices, while the standard SDP computation does not scale beyond few hundred vertices. Furthermore, the analysis presented here easily extends to the multiple graph setting.
Differentially Private Learning of Structured Discrete Distributions,We investigate the problem of learning an unknown probability distribution over a discrete population from random samples. Our goal is to design efficient algorithms that simultaneously achieve low error in total variation norm while guaranteeing Differential Privacy to the individuals of the population.We describe a general approach that yields near sample-optimal and computationally efficient differentially private estimators for a wide range of well-studied and natural distribution families. Our theoretical results show that for a wide variety of structured distributions there exist private estimation algorithms that are nearly as efficient - both in terms of sample size and running time - as their non-private counterparts. We complement our theoretical guarantees with an experimental evaluation. Our experiments illustrate the speed and accuracy of our private estimators on both synthetic mixture models and a large public data set.
Robust Portfolio Optimization,We propose a robust portfolio optimization approach based on quantile statistics. The proposed method is robust to extreme events in asset returns, and accommodates large portfolios under limited historical data. Specifically, we show that the risk of the estimated portfolio converges to the oracle optimal risk with parametric rate under weakly dependent asset returns. The theory does not rely on higher order moment assumptions, thus allowing for heavy-tailed asset returns. Moreover, the rate of convergence quantifies that the size of the portfolio under management is allowed to scale exponentially with the sample size of the historical data. The empirical effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated under both synthetic and real stock data. Our work extends existing ones by achieving robustness in high dimensions, and by allowing serial dependence. 
Bayesian Optimization with Exponential Convergence,This paper presents a Bayesian optimization method with exponential convergence without the need of auxiliary optimization and without the delta-cover sampling. Most Bayesian optimization methods require auxiliary optimization: an additional non-convex global optimization problem, which can be time-consuming and hard to implement in practice. Also, the existing Bayesian optimization method with exponential convergence requires access to the delta-cover sampling, which was considered to be impractical. Our approach eliminates both requirements and achieves an exponential convergence rate.
Fast Randomized Kernel Ridge Regression with Statistical Guarantees,One approach to improving the running time of kernel-based methods is to build a small sketch of the kernel matrix and use it in lieu of the full matrix in the machine learning task of interest. Here, we describe a version of this approach that comes with running time guarantees as well as improved guarantees on its statistical performance.By extending the notion of \emph{statistical leverage scores} to the setting of kernel ridge regression, we are able to identify a sampling distribution that reduces the size of the sketch (i.e., the required number of columns to be sampled) to the \emph{effective dimensionality} of the problem.  This latter quantity is often much smaller than previous bounds that depend on the \emph{maximal degrees of freedom}. We give an empirical evidence supporting this fact. Our second contribution is to present a fast algorithm to quickly compute coarse approximations to thesescores in time linear in the number of samples. More precisely, the running time of the algorithm is $O(np^2)$ with $p$ only depending on the trace of the kernel matrix and the regularization parameter. This is obtained via a variant of squared length sampling that we adapt to the kernel setting. Lastly, we discuss how this new notion of the leverage of a data point captures a fine notion of the difficulty of the learning problem. 
Taming the Wild: A Unified Analysis of Hogwild-Style Algorithms,Stochastic gradient descent (SGD) is a ubiquitous algorithm for a variety of machine learning problems. Researchers and industry have developed several techniques to optimize SGD's runtime performance, including asynchronous execution and reduced precision. Our main result is a martingale-based analysis that enables us to capture the rich noise models that may arise from such techniques. Specifically, we useour new analysis in three ways: (1) we derive convergence rates for the convex case (Hogwild) with relaxed assumptions on the sparsity of the problem; (2) we analyze asynchronous SGD algorithms for non-convex matrix problems including matrix completion; and (3) we design and analyze an asynchronous SGD algorithm, called Buckwild, that uses lower-precision arithmetic. We show experimentally that our algorithms run efficiently for a variety of problems on modern hardware.
Beyond Convexity: Stochastic Quasi-Convex Optimization,This poster has been moved from Monday #86 to Thursday #101.
On the Limitation of Spectral Methods: From the Gaussian Hidden Clique Problem to Rank-One Perturbations of Gaussian Tensors,We consider the following detection problem: given a realization of asymmetric matrix $X$ of dimension $n$, distinguish between the hypothesisthat all upper triangular variables are i.i.d. Gaussians variableswith mean 0 and variance $1$ and the hypothesis that there is aplanted principal submatrix $B$ of dimension $L$ for which all upper triangularvariables are i.i.d. Gaussians with mean $1$ and variance $1$, whereasall other upper triangular elements of $X$ not in $B$ are i.i.d.Gaussians variables with mean 0 and variance $1$. We refer to this asthe `Gaussian hidden clique problem'. When $L=( 1 + \epsilon) \sqrt{n}$ ($\epsilon > 0$), it is possible to solve thisdetection problem with probability $1 - o_n(1)$ by computing thespectrum of $X$ and considering the largest eigenvalue of $X$.We prove that when$L < (1-\epsilon)\sqrt{n}$ no algorithm that examines only theeigenvalues of $X$can detect the existence of a hiddenGaussian clique, with error probability vanishing as $n \to \infty$.The result above is an immediate consequence of a more general result on rank-oneperturbations of $k$-dimensional Gaussian tensors.In this context we establish a lower bound on the criticalsignal-to-noise ratio below which a rank-one signal cannot be detected.
Regularized EM Algorithms: A Unified Framework and Statistical Guarantees,Latent models are a fundamental modeling tool in machine learning applications, but they present significant computational and analytical challenges. The popular EM algorithm and its variants, is a much used algorithmic tool; yet our rigorous understanding of its performance is highly incomplete. Recently, work in [1] has demonstrated that for an important class of problems, EM exhibits linear local convergence. In the high-dimensional setting, however, the M-step may not be well defined. We address precisely this setting through a unified treatment using regularization. While regularization for high-dimensional problems is by now well understood, the iterative EM algorithm requires a careful balancing of making progress towards the solution while identifying the right structure (e.g., sparsity or low-rank). In particular, regularizing the M-step using the state-of-the-art high-dimensional prescriptions (e.g., `a la [19]) is not guaranteed to provide this balance. Our algorithm and analysis are linked in a way that reveals the balance between optimization and statistical errors. We specialize our general framework to sparse gaussian mixture models, high-dimensional mixed regression, and regression with missing variables, obtaining statistical guarantees for each of these examples.
Black-box optimization of noisy functions with unknown smoothness,We study the problem of black-box optimization of a function $f$ of any dimension, given function evaluations perturbed by noise. The function is assumed to be locally smooth around one of its global optima, but this smoothness is unknown. Our contribution is an adaptive optimization algorithm, POO or parallel optimistic optimization, that is able to deal with this setting. POO performs almost as well as the best known algorithms requiring the knowledge of the smoothness. Furthermore, POO works for a larger class of functions than what was previously considered, especially for functions that are difficult to optimize, in a very precise sense. We provide a finite-time analysis of  POO's performance, which shows that its error after $n$ evaluations is at most a factor of $\sqrt{\ln n}$ away from the error of the best known optimization algorithms using the knowledge of the smoothness. 
Combinatorial Cascading Bandits,We propose combinatorial cascading bandits, a class of partial monitoring problems where at each step a learning agent chooses a tuple of ground items subject to constraints and receives a reward if and only if the weights of all chosen items are one. The weights of the items are binary, stochastic, and drawn independently of each other. The agent observes the index of the first chosen item whose weight is zero. This observation model arises in network routing, for instance, where the learning agent may only observe the first link in the routing path which is down, and blocks the path. We propose a UCB-like algorithm for solving our problems, CombCascade; and prove gap-dependent and gap-free upper bounds on its n-step regret. Our proofs build on recent work in stochastic combinatorial semi-bandits but also address two novel challenges of our setting, a non-linear reward function and partial observability. We evaluate CombCascade on two real-world problems and show that it performs well even when our modeling assumptions are violated. We also demonstrate that our setting requires a new learning algorithm.
Adaptive Primal-Dual Splitting Methods for Statistical Learning and Image Processing,The alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) is an important tool for solving complex optimization problems, but it involves minimization sub-steps that are often difficult to solve efficiently.   The Primal-Dual Hybrid Gradient (PDHG) method is a powerful alternative that often has simpler substeps than ADMM, thus producing lower complexity solvers. Despite the flexibility of this method, PDHG is often impractical because it requires the careful choice of multiple stepsize parameters. There is often no intuitive way to choose these parameters to maximize efficiency, or even achieve convergence.  We propose self-adaptive stepsize rules that automatically tune PDHG parameters for optimal convergence.  We rigorously analyze our methods, and identify convergence rates.  Numerical experiments show that adaptive PDHG has strong advantages over non-adaptive methods in terms of both efficiency and simplicity for the user.
Sum-of-Squares Lower Bounds for Sparse PCA,This paper establishes a statistical versus computational trade-offfor solving a basic high-dimensional machine learning problem via a basic convex relaxation method. Specifically, we consider the {\em Sparse Principal Component Analysis} (Sparse PCA) problem, and the family of {\em Sum-of-Squares} (SoS, aka Lasserre/Parillo) convex relaxations. It was well known that in large dimension $p$, a planted $k$-sparse unit vector can be {\em in principle} detected using only $n \approx k\log p$ (Gaussian or Bernoulli) samples, but all {\em efficient} (polynomial time) algorithms known require $n \approx k^2 $ samples. It was also known that this quadratic gap cannot be improved by the the most basic {\em semi-definite} (SDP, aka spectral) relaxation, equivalent to a degree-2 SoS algorithms. Here we prove that also degree-4 SoS algorithms cannot improve this quadratic gap. This average-case lower bound adds to the small collection of hardness results in machine learning for this powerful family of convex relaxation algorithms. Moreover, our design of moments (or ``pseudo-expectations'') for this lower bound is quite different than previous lower bounds. Establishing lower bounds for higher degree SoS algorithms for remains a challenging problem.
Online Gradient Boosting,We extend the theory of boosting for regression problems to the online learning setting. Generalizing from the batch setting for boosting, the notion of a weak learning algorithm is modeled as an online learning algorithm with linear loss functions that competes with a base class of regression functions, while a strong learning algorithm is an online learning algorithm with smooth convex loss functions that competes with a larger class of regression functions. Our main result is an online gradient boosting algorithm which converts a weak online learning algorithm into a strong one where the larger class of functions is the linear span of the base class. We also give a simpler boosting algorithm that converts a weak online learning algorithm into a strong one where the larger class of functions is the convex hull of the base class, and prove its optimality.
Regularization-Free Estimation in Trace Regression with Symmetric Positive Semidefinite Matrices,Trace regression models have received considerable attention in the context of matrix completion, quantum state tomography, and compressed sensing. Estimation of the underlying matrix from regularization-based approaches promoting low-rankedness, notably nuclear norm regularization, have enjoyed great popularity. In this paper, we argue that such regularization may no longer be necessary if the underlying matrix is symmetric positive semidefinite (spd) and the design satisfies certain conditions. In this situation, simple least squares estimation subject to an spd constraint may perform as well as regularization-based approaches with a proper choice of  regularization parameter, which entails knowledge of the noise level and/or tuning. By contrast, constrained least squaresestimation comes without any tuning parameter and may hence be preferred due to its simplicity.
Convergence Analysis of Prediction Markets via Randomized Subspace Descent,Prediction markets are economic mechanisms for aggregating information about future events through sequential interactions with traders.  The pricing mechanisms in these markets are known to be related to optimization algorithms in machine learning and through these connections we have some understanding of how equilibrium market prices relate to the beliefs of the traders in a market.  However, little is known about rates and guarantees for the convergence of these sequential mechanisms, and two recent papers cite this as an important open question.In this paper we show how some previously studied prediction market trading models can be understood as a natural generalization of randomized coordinate descent which we call randomized subspace descent (RSD).  We establish convergence rates for RSD and leverage them to prove rates for the two prediction market models above, answering the open questions.  Our results extend beyond standard centralized markets to arbitrary trade networks.
Accelerated Proximal Gradient Methods for Nonconvex Programming,Nonconvex and nonsmooth problems have recently received considerable attention in signal/image processing, statistics and machine learning. However, solving the nonconvex and nonsmooth optimization problems remains a big challenge. Accelerated proximal gradient (APG) is an excellent method for convex programming. However, it is still unknown whether the usual APG can ensure the convergence to a critical point in nonconvex programming. To address this issue, we introduce a monitor-corrector step and extend APG for general nonconvex and nonsmooth programs. Accordingly, we propose a monotone APG and a non-monotone APG. The latter waives the requirement on monotonic reduction of the objective function and needs less computation in each iteration. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to provide APG-type algorithms for general nonconvex and nonsmooth problems ensuring that every accumulation point is a critical point, and the convergence rates remain $O(1/k^2)$ when the problems are convex, in which k is the number of iterations. Numerical results testify to the advantage of our algorithms in speed.
Nearly Optimal Private LASSO,We present a nearly optimal differentially private version of the well known LASSO estimator. Our algorithm provides privacy protection with respect to each training data item. The excess risk of our algorithm, compared to the non-private version, is $\widetilde{O}(1/n^{2/3})$, assuming all the input data has bounded $\ell_\infty$ norm. This is the first differentially private algorithm that achieves such a bound without the polynomial dependence on $p$ under no addition assumption on the design matrix. In addition, we show that this error bound is nearly optimal amongst all differentially private algorithms.
Minimax Time Series Prediction,We consider an adversarial formulation of the problem ofpredicting a time series with square loss.  The aim is to predictan arbitrary sequence of vectors almost as well as the bestsmooth comparator sequence in retrospect.  Our approach allowsnatural measures of smoothness such as the squared norm ofincrements. More generally, we consider a linear time seriesmodel and penalize the comparator sequence through the energy ofthe implied driving noise terms.  We derive the minimax strategyfor all problems of this type and show that it can be implementedefficiently.  The optimal predictions are linear in the previousobservations.  We obtain an explicit expression for the regret interms of the parameters defining the problem.  For typical,simple definitions of smoothness, the computation of the optimalpredictions involves only sparse matrices.  In the case ofnorm-constrained data, where the smoothness is defined in termsof the squared norm of the comparator's increments, we show thatthe regret grows as $T/\sqrt{\lambda_T}$, where $T$ is the lengthof the game and $\lambda_T$ is an increasing limit on comparatorsmoothness.
Communication Complexity of Distributed Convex Learning and Optimization,We study the fundamental limits to communication-efficient distributed methods for convex learning and optimization, under different assumptions on the information available to individual machines, and the types of functions considered. We identify cases where existing algorithms are already worst-case optimal, as well as cases where room for further improvement is still possible. Among other things, our results indicate that without similarity between the local objective functions (due to statistical data similarity or otherwise) many communication rounds may be required, even if the machines have unbounded computational power.
Explore no more: Improved high-probability regret bounds for non-stochastic bandits,This work addresses the problem of regret minimization in non-stochastic multi-armed bandit problems, focusing on performance guarantees that hold with high probability. Such results are rather scarce in the literature since proving them requires a large deal of technical effort and significant modifications to the standard, more intuitive algorithms that come only with guarantees that hold on expectation. One of these modifications is forcing the learner to sample arms from the uniform distribution at least $\Omega(\sqrt{T})$ times over $T$ rounds, which can adversely affect performance if many of the arms are suboptimal. While it is widely conjectured that this property is essential for proving high-probability regret bounds, we show in this paper that it is possible to achieve such strong results without this undesirable exploration component. Our result relies on a simple and intuitive loss-estimation strategy called Implicit eXploration (IX) that allows a remarkably clean analysis. To demonstrate the flexibility of our technique, we derive several improved high-probability bounds for various extensions of the standard multi-armed bandit framework.Finally, we conduct a simple experiment that illustrates the robustness of our implicit exploration technique.
A Nonconvex Optimization Framework for Low Rank Matrix Estimation,We study the estimation of low rank matrices via nonconvex optimization. Compared with convex relaxation, nonconvex optimization exhibits superior empirical performance for large scale instances of low rank matrix estimation. However, the understanding of its theoretical guarantees are limited. In this paper, we define the notion of projected oracle divergence based on which we establish sufficient conditions for the success of nonconvex optimization. We illustrate the consequences of this general framework for matrix sensing and completion. In particular, we prove that a broad class of nonconvex optimization algorithms, including alternating minimization and gradient-type methods, geometrically converge to the global optimum and exactly recover the true low rank matrices under standard conditions. 
Individual Planning in Infinite-Horizon Multiagent Settings: Inference, Structure and Scalability,This  paper  provides  the first  formalization  of  self-interested planning in multiagent settings using expectation-maximization (EM). Our   formalization  in   the   context   of  infinite-horizon   and finitely-nested interactive  POMDPs (I-POMDP) is  distinct from EM formulations  for POMDPs  and cooperative  multiagent planning frameworks.  We  exploit the graphical model structure  specific to I-POMDPs, and present  a new  approach based  on block-coordinate  descent for  further speed up.  Forward  filtering-backward sampling -- a combination of exact filtering  with sampling -- is explored to exploit problem structure.
Deep Generative Image Models using a Laplacian Pyramid of Adversarial Networks,In this paper we introduce a generative model capable of producing high quality samples of natural images. Our approach uses a cascade of convolutional networks (convnets) within a Laplacian pyramid framework to generate images in a coarse-to-fine fashion. At each level of the pyramid a separate generative convnet model is trained using the Generative Adversarial Nets (GAN) approach. Samples drawn from our model are of significantly higher quality than  existing models. In a quantitive assessment by human evaluators our CIFAR10 samples were mistaken for real images around 40%  of the time, compared to 10% for GAN samples. We also show samples from more diverse datasets such as STL10 and LSUN.
Shepard Convolutional Neural Networks,Deep learning has recently been introduced to the field of low-level computer vision and image processing. Promising results have been obtained in a number of tasks including super-resolution, inpainting, deconvolution, filtering, etc. However, previously adopted neural network approaches such as convolutional neural networks and sparse auto-encoders are inherently with translation invariant operators. We found this property prevents the deep learning approaches from outperforming the state-of-the-art if the task itself requires translation variant interpolation (TVI). In this paper, we draw on Shepard interpolation and design Shepard Convolutional Neural Networks (ShCNN) which efficiently realizes end-to-end trainable TVI operators in the network. We show that by adding only a few feature maps in the new Shepard layers, the network is able to achieve stronger results than a much deeper architecture. Superior performance on both image inpainting and super-resolution is obtained where our system outperforms previous ones while keeping the running time competitive.
Learning Structured Output Representation using Deep Conditional Generative Models,Supervised deep learning has been successfully applied for many recognition problems in machine learning and computer vision. Although it can approximate a complex many-to-one function very well when large number of training data is provided, the lack of probabilistic inference of the current supervised deep learning methods makes it difficult to model a complex structured output representations. In this work, we develop a scalable deep conditional generative model for structured output variables using Gaussian latent variables. The model is trained efficiently in the framework of stochastic gradient variational Bayes, and allows a fast prediction using stochastic feed-forward inference. In addition, we provide novel strategies to build a robust structured prediction algorithms, such as recurrent prediction network architecture, input noise-injection and multi-scale prediction training methods. In experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed algorithm in comparison to the deterministic deep neural network counterparts in generating diverse but realistic output representations using stochastic inference. Furthermore, the proposed schemes in training methods and architecture design were complimentary, which leads to achieve strong pixel-level object segmentation and semantic labeling performance on Caltech-UCSD Birds 200 and the subset of Labeled Faces in the Wild dataset.
Expressing an Image Stream with a Sequence of Natural Sentences,We propose an approach for generating a sequence of natural sentences for an image stream. Since general users usually take a series of pictures on their special moments, much online visual information exists in the form of image streams, for which it would better take into consideration of the whole set to generate natural language descriptions. While almost all previous studies have dealt with the relation between a single image and a single natural sentence, our work extends both input and output dimension to a sequence of images and a sequence of sentences. To this end, we design a novel architecture called coherent recurrent convolutional network (CRCN), which consists of convolutional networks, bidirectional recurrent networks, and entity-based local coherence model. Our approach directly learns from vast user-generated resource of blog posts as text-image parallel training data. We demonstrate that our approach outperforms other state-of-the-art candidate methods, using both quantitative measures (e.g. BLEU and top-K recall) and user studies via Amazon Mechanical Turk.
Visalogy: Answering Visual Analogy Questions,In this paper, we study the problem of answering visual analogy questions. These questions take the form of image A is to image B as image C is to what. Answering these questions entails discovering the mapping from image A to image B and then extending the mapping to image C and searching for the image D such that the relation from A to B holds for C to D. We pose this problem as learning an embedding that encourages pairs of analogous images with similar transformations to be close together using convolutional neural networks with a quadruple Siamese architecture. We introduce a dataset of visual analogy questions in natural images, and show first results of its kind on solving analogy questions on natural images.
Bidirectional Recurrent Convolutional Networks for Multi-Frame Super-Resolution,Super resolving a low-resolution video is usually handled by either single-image super-resolution (SR) or multi-frame SR. Single-Image SR deals with each video frame independently, and ignores intrinsic temporal dependency of video frames which actually plays a very important role in video super-resolution. Multi-Frame SR generally extracts motion information, e.g. optical flow, to model the temporal dependency, which often shows high computational cost. Considering that recurrent neural network (RNN) can model long-term contextual information of temporal sequences well, we propose a bidirectional recurrent convolutional network for efficient multi-frame SR.Different from vanilla RNN, 1) the commonly-used recurrent full connections are replaced with weight-sharing convolutional connections and 2) conditional convolutional connections from previous input layers to current hidden layer are added for enhancing visual-temporal dependency modelling. With the powerful temporal dependency modelling, our model can super resolve videos with complex motions and achieve state-of-the-art performance. Due to the cheap convolution operations, our model has a low computational complexity and runs orders of magnitude faster than other multi-frame methods.
SubmodBoxes: Near-Optimal Search for a Set of Diverse Object Proposals,This paper formulates the search for a set of bounding boxes (as needed in object proposal generation) as a monotone submodular maximization problem over the space of all possible bounding boxes in an image. Since the number of possible bounding boxes in an image is very large $O(#pixels^2)$, even a single linear scan to perform the greedy augmentation for submodular maximization is intractable. Thus, we formulate the greedy augmentation step as a Branch-and-Bound scheme. In order to speed up repeated application of B\&B, we propose a novel generalization of Minouxs lazy greedy algorithm to the B\&B tree. Theoretically, our proposed formulation provides a new understanding to the problem, and contains classic heuristic approaches such as Sliding Window+Non-Maximal Suppression (NMS) and and Efficient Subwindow Search (ESS) as special cases. Empirically, we show that our approach leads to a state-of-art performance on object proposal generation via a novel diversity measure.
Galileo: Perceiving Physical Object Properties by Integrating a Physics Engine with Deep Learning,Humans demonstrate remarkable abilities to predict physical events in dynamic scenes, and to infer the physical properties of objects from static images. We propose a generative model for solving these problems of physical scene understanding from real-world videos and images. At the core of our generative model is a 3D physics engine, operating on an object-based representation of physical properties, including mass, position, 3D shape, and friction. We can infer these latent properties using relatively brief runs of MCMC, which drive simulations in the physics engine to fit key features of visual observations. We further explore directly mapping visual inputs to physical properties, inverting a part of the generative process using deep learning. We name our model Galileo, and evaluate it on a video dataset with simple yet physically rich scenarios. Results show that Galileo is able to infer the physical properties of objects and predict the outcome of a variety of physical events, with an accuracy comparable to human subjects. Our study points towards an account of human vision with generative physical knowledge at its core, and various recognition models as helpers leading to efficient inference.
Learning visual biases from human imagination,Although the human visual system can recognize many concepts under challengingconditions, it still has some biases. In this paper, we investigate whether wecan extract these biases and transfer them into a machine recognition system.We introduce a novel method that, inspired by well-known tools in humanpsychophysics, estimates the biases that the human visual system might use forrecognition, but in computer vision feature spaces.   Our experiments aresurprising, and suggest that classifiers from the human visual system can betransferred into a machine with some success. Since these classifiers seem tocapture favorable biases in the human visual system, we further present an SVMformulation that constrains the orientation of the SVM hyperplane to agree withthe bias from human visual system. Our results suggest that transferring thishuman bias into machines may help object recognition systems generalize acrossdatasets and perform better when very little training data is available.
Character-level Convolutional Networks for Text Classification,This article offers an empirical exploration on the use of character-level convolutional networks (ConvNets) for text classification. We constructed several large-scale datasets to show that character-level convolutional networks could achieve state-of-the-art or competitive results. Comparisons are offered against traditional models such as bag of words, n-grams and their TFIDF variants, and deep learning models such as word-based ConvNets and recurrent neural networks.
Winner-Take-All Autoencoders,In this paper, we propose a winner-take-all method for learning hierarchical sparse representations in an unsupervised fashion. We first introduce fully-connected winner-take-all autoencoders which use mini-batch statistics to directly enforce a lifetime sparsity in the activations of the hidden units. We then propose the convolutional winner-take-all autoencoder which combines the benefits of convolutional architectures and autoencoders for learning shift-invariant sparse representations. We describe a way to train convolutional autoencoders layer by layer, where in addition to lifetime sparsity, a spatial sparsity within each feature map is achieved using winner-take-all activation functions. We will show that winner-take-all autoencoders can be used to to learn deep sparse representations from the MNIST, CIFAR-10, ImageNet, Street View House Numbers and Toronto Face datasets, and achieve competitive classification performance.
Learning both Weights and Connections for Efficient Neural Network,Neural networks are both computationally intensive and memory intensive, making them difficult to deploy on embedded systems. Also, conventional networks fix the architecture before training starts; as a result, training cannot improve the architecture. To address these limitations, we describe a method to reduce the storage and computation required by neural networks by an order of magnitude without affecting their accuracy by learning only the important connections. Our method prunes redundant connections using a three-step method. First, we train the network to learn which connections are important. Next, we prune the unimportant connections. Finally, we retrain the network to fine tune the weights of the remaining connections. On the ImageNet dataset, our method reduced the number of parameters of AlexNet by a factor of 9, from 61 million to 6.7 million, without incurring accuracy loss. Similar experiments with VGG-16 found that the total number of parameters can be reduced by 13, from 138 million to 10.3 million, again with no loss of accuracy.
Interactive Control of Diverse Complex Characters with Neural Networks,We present a method for training recurrent neural networks to act as near-optimal feedback controllers. It is able to generate stable and realistic behaviors for a range of dynamical systems and tasks -- swimming, flying, biped and quadruped walking with different body morphologies. It does not require motion capture or task-specific features or state machines. The controller is a neural network, having a large number of feed-forward units that learn elaborate state-action mappings, and a small number of recurrent units that implement memory states beyond the physical system state. The action generated by the network is defined as velocity. Thus the network is not learning a control policy, but rather the dynamics under an implicit policy. Essential features of the method include interleaving supervised learning with trajectory optimization, injecting noise during training, training for unexpected changes in the task specification, and using the trajectory optimizer to obtain optimal feedback gains in addition to optimal actions.
Biologically Inspired Dynamic Textures for Probing Motion Perception,Perception is often described as a predictive process based on an optimal inference with respect to a generative model. We study here the principled construction of a generative model specifically crafted to probe motion perception. In that context, we first provide an axiomatic, biologically-driven derivation of the model. This model synthesizes random dynamic textures which are defined by stationary Gaussian distributions obtained by the random aggregation of warped patterns. Importantly, we show that this model can equivalently be described as a stochastic partial differential equation. Using this characterization of motion in images, it allows us to recast motion-energy models into a principled Bayesian inference framework. Finally, we apply these textures in order to psychophysically probe speed perception in humans. In this framework, while the likelihood is derived from the generative model, the prior is estimated from the observed results and accounts for the perceptual bias in a principled fashion.
Unsupervised Learning by Program Synthesis,We introduce an unsupervised learning algorithmthat combines probabilistic modeling with solver-based techniques for program synthesis.We apply our techniques to both a visual learning domain and a language learning problem,showing that our algorithm can learn many visual concepts from only a few examplesand that it can recover some English inflectional morphology.Taken together, these results give both a new approach to unsupervised learning of symbolic compositional structures,and a technique for applying program synthesis tools to noisy data.
Deep Poisson Factor Modeling,We propose a new deep architecture for topic modeling, based on Poisson Factor Analysis (PFA) modules. The model is composed of a Poisson distribution to model observed vectors of counts, as well as a deep hierarchy of hidden binary units. Rather than using logistic functions to characterize the probability that a latent binary unit is on, we employ a Bernoulli-Poisson link, which allows PFA modules to be used repeatedly in the deep architecture. We also describe an approach to build discriminative topic models, by adapting PFA modules. We derive efficient inference via MCMC and stochastic variational methods, that scale with the number of non-zeros in the data and binary units, yielding significant efficiency, relative to models based on logistic links. Experiments on several corpora demonstrate the advantages of our model when compared to related deep models.
Large-Scale Bayesian Multi-Label Learning via Topic-Based Label Embeddings ,We present a scalable Bayesian multi-label learning model based on learning low-dimensional label embeddings. Our model assumes that each label vector is generated as a weighted combination of a set of topics (each topic being a distribution over labels), where the combination weights (i.e., the embeddings) for each label vector are conditioned on the observed feature vector. This construction, coupled with a Bernoulli-Poisson link function for each label of the binary label vector, leads to a model with a computational cost that scales in the number of positive labels in the label matrix. This makes the model particularly appealing for real-world multi-label learning problems where the label matrix is usually very massive but highly sparse. Using a data-augmentation strategy leads to full local conjugacy in our model, facilitating simple and very efficient Gibbs sampling, as well as an Expectation Maximization algorithm for inference. Also, predicting the label vector at test time does not require doing an inference for the label embeddings and can be done in closed form. We report results on several benchmark data sets, comparing our model with various state-of-the art methods.
Tensorizing Neural Networks,Deep neural networks currently demonstrate state-of-the-art performance in several domains.At the same time, models of this class are very demanding in terms of computational resources. In particular, a large amount of memory is required by commonly used fully-connected layers, making it hard to use the models on low-end devices and stopping the further increase of the model size. In this paper we convert the dense weight matrices of the fully-connected layers to the Tensor Train format such that the number of parameters is reduced by a huge factor and at the same time the expressive power of the layer is preserved.In particular, for the Very Deep VGG networks we report the compression factor of the dense weight matrix of a fully-connected layer up to 200000 times leading to the compression factor of the whole network up to 7 times.
Training Restricted Boltzmann Machine via the Thouless-Anderson-Palmer free energy,Restricted Boltzmann machines are undirected neural networks which have been shown tobe effective in many applications, including serving as initializations fortraining deep multi-layer neural networks. One of the main reasons for their success is theexistence of efficient and practical stochastic algorithms, such as contrastive divergence,for unsupervised training. We propose an alternative deterministic iterative procedure based on an improved mean field method from statistical physics known as the Thouless-Anderson-Palmer approach. We demonstrate that our algorithm provides performance equal to, and sometimes superior to, persistent contrastive divergence, while also providing a clear and easy to evaluate objective function. We believe that this strategycan be easily generalized to other models as well as to more accurate higher-order approximations, paving the way for systematic improvements in training Boltzmann machineswith hidden units.
The Brain Uses Reliability of Stimulus Information when Making Perceptual Decisions,In simple perceptual decisions the brain has to identify a stimulus based on noisy sensory samples from the stimulus. Basic statistical considerations state that the reliability of the stimulus information, i.e., the amount of noise in the samples, should be taken into account when the decision is made. However, for perceptual decision making experiments it has been questioned whether the brain indeed uses the reliability for making decisions when confronted with unpredictable changes in stimulus reliability. We here show that even the basic drift diffusion model, which has frequently been used to explain experimental findings in perceptual decision making, implicitly relies on estimates of stimulus reliability. We then show that only those variants of the drift diffusion model which allow stimulus-specific reliabilities are consistent with neurophysiological findings. Our analysis suggests that the brain estimates the reliability of the stimulus on a short time scale of at most a few hundred milliseconds.
Unlocking neural population non-stationarities using hierarchical dynamics models,Neural population activity often exhibits rich variability. This variability is thought to arise from single-neuron stochasticity, neural dynamics on short time-scales, as well as  from modulations of neural firing properties on long time-scales, often referred to as non-stationarity. To better understand the nature of co-variability in neural circuits and their impact on cortical information processing, we introduce a  hierarchical dynamics model that is able to capture inter-trial modulations in firing rates, as well as neural population dynamics. We derive an algorithm for Bayesian Laplace propagation for fast posterior inference, and demonstrate that our model provides a better account of the structure of neural firing than existing stationary dynamics models, when applied to neural population recordings from primary visual cortex.
Deeply Learning the Messages in Message Passing Inference,Deep structured output learning shows great promise in tasks like semantic image segmentation. We proffer a new, efficient deep structured model learning scheme, in which we show how deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) can be used to directly estimate the messages in message passing inference for structured prediction with Conditional Random Fields CRFs). With such CNN message estimators, we obviate the need to learn or evaluate potential functions for message calculation. This confers significant efficiency for learning, since otherwise when performing structured learning for a CRF with CNN potentials it is necessary to undertake expensive inference for every stochastic gradient iteration. The network output dimension of message estimators is the same as the number of classes, rather than exponentially growing in the order of the potentials. Hence it is more scalable for cases that a large number of classes are involved. We apply our method to semantic image segmentation and achieve impressive performance, which demonstrates the effectiveness and usefulness of our CNN message learning method.
COEVOLVE: A Joint Point Process Model for Information Diffusion and Network Co-evolution,Information diffusion in online social networks is affected by the underlying network topology, but it also has the power to change it. Online users are constantly creating new links when exposed to new information sources, and in turn these links are alternating the way information spreads. However, these two highly intertwined stochastic processes, information diffusion and network evolution, have been predominantly studied separately, ignoring their co-evolutionary dynamics.We propose a temporal point process model, COEVOLVE, for such joint dynamics, allowing the intensity of one process to be modulated by that of the other. This model allows us to efficiently simulate interleaved diffusion and network events, and generate traces obeying common diffusion and network patterns observed in real-world networks. Furthermore, we also develop a convex optimization framework to learn the parameters of the model from historical diffusion and network evolution traces. We experimented with both synthetic data and data gathered from Twitter, and show that our model provides a good fit to the data as well as more accurate predictions than alternatives.
The Human Kernel,Bayesian nonparametric models, such as Gaussian processes, provide a compelling framework for automatic statistical modelling: these models have a high degree of flexibility, and automatically calibrated complexity.  However, automating human expertise remains elusive; for example, Gaussian processes with standard kernels struggle on function extrapolation problems that are trivial for human learners. In this paper, we create function extrapolation problems and acquire human responses, and then design a kernel learning framework to reverse engineer the inductive biases of human learners across a set of behavioral experiments. We use the learned kernels to gain psychological insights and to extrapolate in human-like ways that go beyond traditional stationary and polynomial kernels.  Finally, we investigate Occam's razor in human and Gaussian process based function learning.
Latent Bayesian melding for integrating individual and population models,In many statistical problems, a more coarse-grained model may be suitable for population-level behaviour,  whereas a more detailed model is appropriate for accurate modelling of individual behaviour. This raises the question of how to integrate both types of models. Methods such as posterior regularization follow the idea of generalized moment matching, in that they allow matchingexpectations between two models, but sometimes both models are most conveniently expressed as latent variable models. We propose latent Bayesian melding, which is motivated by averaging the distributions over populations statistics of both the individual-level and the population-level models under a logarithmic opinion pool framework. In a case study on electricity disaggregation, which is a type of single-channel blind source separation problem, we show that latent Bayesian melding leads to significantly more accurate predictions than an approach based solely on generalized moment matching.
High-dimensional neural spike train analysis with generalized count linear dynamical systems,Latent factor models have been widely used to analyze simultaneous recordings of spike trains from large, heterogeneous neural populations.  These models assume  the signal of interest in the population is a low-dimensional latent intensity that evolves over time, which is observed in high dimension via noisy point-process observations.  These techniques have been well used to capture neural correlations across a population and to provide a smooth, denoised, and concise representation of high-dimensional spiking data.  One limitation of many current models is that the observation model is assumed to be Poisson, which lacks the flexibility to capture under- and over-dispersion that is common in recorded neural data, thereby introducing bias into estimates of covariance.  Here we develop the generalized count linear dynamical system, which relaxes the Poisson assumption by using a more general exponential family for count data.  In addition to containing Poisson, Bernoulli, negative binomial, and other common count distributions as special cases, we show that this model can be tractably learned by extending recent advances in variational inference techniques.  We apply our model to data from primate motor cortex and demonstrate performance improvements over state-of-the-art methods, both in capturing the variance structure of the data and in held-out prediction.
Efficient Learning of Continuous-Time Hidden Markov Models for Disease Progression,The Continuous-Time Hidden Markov Model (CT-HMM) is an attractive approach to modeling disease progression due to its ability to describe noisy observations arriving irregularly in time. However, the lack of an efficient parameter learning algorithm for CT-HMM restricts its use to very small models or requires unrealistic constraints on the state transitions. In this paper, we present the first complete characterization of efficient EM-based learning methods for CT-HMM models. We demonstrate that the learning problem consists of two challenges: the estimation of posterior state probabilities and the computation of end-state conditioned statistics. We solve the first challenge by reformulating the estimation problem in terms of an equivalent discrete time-inhomogeneous hidden Markov model. The second challenge is addressed by adapting three approaches from the continuous time Markov chain literature to the CT-HMM domain. We demonstrate the use of CT-HMMs with more than 100 states to visualize and predict disease progression using a glaucoma dataset and an Alzheimer's disease dataset.
The Population Posterior and Bayesian Modeling on Streams,Many modern data analysis problems involve inferences from streaming data. However, streaming data is not easily amenable to the standard probabilistic modeling approaches, which assume that we condition on finite data. We develop population variational Bayes, a new approach for using Bayesian modeling to analyze streams of data. It approximates a new type of distribution, the population posterior, which combines the notion of a population distribution of the data with Bayesian inference in a probabilistic model.  We study our method with latent Dirichlet allocation and Dirichlet process mixtures on several large-scale data sets. 
Probabilistic Curve Learning: Coulomb Repulsion and the Electrostatic Gaussian Process,Learning of low dimensional structure in multidimensional data is a canonical problem in machine learning.  One common approach is to suppose that the observed data are close to a lower-dimensional smooth manifold.  There are a rich variety of manifold learning methods available, which allow mapping of data points to the manifold.  However, there is a clear lack of probabilistic methods that allow learning of the manifold along with the generative distribution of the observed data.  The best attempt is the Gaussian process latent variable model (GP-LVM), but identifiability issues lead to poor performance.  We solve these issues by proposing a novel Coulomb repulsive process (Corp) for locations of points on the manifold, inspired by physical models of electrostatic interactions among particles.  Combining this process with a GP prior for the mapping function yields a novel electrostatic GP (electroGP) process.  Focusing on the simple case of a one-dimensional manifold, we develop efficient inference algorithms, and illustrate substantially improved performance in a variety of experiments including filling in missing frames in video.
Preconditioned Spectral Descent for Deep Learning,Deep learning presents notorious computational challenges. These challenges include, but are not limited to, the non-convexity of learning objectives and estimating the quantities needed for optimization algorithms, such as gradients. While we do not address the non-convexity, we present an optimization solution that ex- ploits the so far unused geometry in the objective function in order to best make use of the estimated gradients. Previous work attempted similar goals with preconditioned methods in the Euclidean space, such as L-BFGS, RMSprop, and ADA-grad. In stark contrast, our approach combines a non-Euclidean gradient method with preconditioning. We provide evidence that this combination more accurately captures the geometry of the objective function compared to prior work. We theoretically formalize our arguments and derive novel preconditioned non-Euclidean algorithms. The results are promising in both computational time and quality when applied to Restricted Boltzmann Machines, Feedforward Neural Nets, and Convolutional Neural Nets.
Learning Continuous Control Policies by Stochastic Value Gradients,We present a unified framework for learning continuous control policies usingbackpropagation. It supports stochastic control by treating stochasticity in theBellman equation as a deterministic function of exogenous noise. The productis a spectrum of general policy gradient algorithms that range from model-freemethods with value functions to model-based methods without value functions.We use learned models but only require observations from the environment insteadof observations from model-predicted trajectories, minimizing the impactof compounded model errors. We apply these algorithms first to a toy stochasticcontrol problem and then to several physics-based control problems in simulation.One of these variants, SVG(1), shows the effectiveness of learning models, valuefunctions, and policies simultaneously in continuous domains.
Learning Stationary Time Series using Gaussian Processes with Nonparametric Kernels,We introduce the Gaussian Process Convolution Model (GPCM), a two-stage nonparametric generative procedure to model stationary signals as the convolution between a continuous-time white-noise process and a continuous-time linear filter drawn from Gaussian process. The GPCM is a continuous-time nonparametric-window moving average process and, conditionally, is itself a Gaussian process with a nonparametric kernel defined in a probabilistic fashion. The generative model can be equivalently considered in the frequency domain, where the power spectral density of the signal is specified using a Gaussian process. One of the main contributions of the paper is to develop a novel variational free-energy approach based on inter-domain inducing variables that efficiently learns the continuous-time linear filter and infers the driving white-noise process. In turn, this scheme provides closed-form probabilistic estimates of the covariance kernel and the noise-free signal both in denoising and prediction scenarios. Additionally, the variational inference procedure provides closed-form expressions for the approximate posterior of the spectral density given the observed data, leading to new Bayesian nonparametric  approaches to spectrum estimation. The proposed GPCM is validated using synthetic and real-world signals.
Path-SGD: Path-Normalized Optimization in Deep Neural Networks,We revisit the choice of SGD for training deep neural networks by reconsidering the appropriate geometry in which to optimize the weights.  We argue for a geometry invariant to rescaling of weights that does not affect the output of the network, and suggest Path-SGD, which is an approximate steepest descent method with respect to a path-wise regularizer related to max-norm regularization.  Path-SGD is easy and efficient to implement and leads to empirical gains over SGD and AdaGrad.
Automatic Variational Inference in Stan,Variational inference is a scalable technique for approximate Bayesian inference.  Deriving variational inference algorithms requires tedious model-specific calculations; this makes it difficult for non-experts to use.  We propose an automatic variational inference algorithm, automatic differentiation variational inference (ADVI); we implement it in Stan (code available), a probabilistic programming system.  In ADVI the user provides a Bayesian model and a dataset, nothing else.  We make no conjugacy assumptions and support a broad class of models. The algorithm automatically determines an appropriate variational family and optimizes the variational objective. We compare ADVI to MCMC sampling across hierarchical generalized linear models, nonconjugate matrix factorization, and a mixture model. We train the mixture model on a quarter million images.  With ADVI we can use variational inference on any model we write in Stan.
Data Generation as Sequential Decision Making,We connect a broad class of generative models through their shared reliance on sequential decision making. Motivated by this view, we develop extensions to an existing model, and then explore the idea further in the context of data imputation -- perhaps the simplest setting in which to investigate the relation between unconditional and conditional generative modelling. We formulate data imputation as an MDP and develop models capable of representing effective policies for it. We construct the models using neural networks and train them using a form of guided policy search. Our models generate predictions through an iterative process of feedback and refinement. We show that this approach can learn effective policies for imputation problems of varying difficulty and across multiple datasets.
Stochastic Expectation Propagation,Expectation propagation (EP) is a deterministic approximation algorithm that is often used to perform approximate Bayesian parameter learning. EP approximates the full intractable posterior distribution through a set of local-approximations that are iteratively refined for each datapoint. EP can offer analytic and computational advantages over other approximations, such as Variational Inference (VI), and is the method of choice for a number of models. The local nature of EP appears to make it an ideal candidate for performing Bayesian learning on large models in large-scale datasets settings. However, EP has a crucial limitation in this context: the number approximating factors needs to increase with the number of data-points, N, which often entails a prohibitively large memory overhead. This paper presents an extension to EP, called stochastic expectation propagation (SEP), that maintains a global posterior approximation (like VI) but updates it in a local way (like EP).  Experiments on a number of canonical learning problems using synthetic and real-world datasets indicate that SEP performs almost as well as full EP, but reduces the memory consumption by a factor of N. SEP is therefore ideally suited to performing approximate Bayesian learning in the large model, large dataset setting.
Deep learning with Elastic Averaging SGD,We study the problem of stochastic optimization for deep learning in the parallel computing environment under communication constraints. A new algorithm is proposed in this setting where the communication and coordination of work among concurrent processes (local workers), is based on an elastic force which links the parameters they compute with a center variable stored by the parameter server (master). The algorithm enables the local workers to perform more exploration, i.e. the algorithm allows the local variables to fluctuate further from the center variable by reducing the amount of communication between local workers and the master. We empirically demonstrate that in the deep learning setting, due to the existence of many local optima, allowing more exploration can lead to the improved performance. We propose synchronous and asynchronous variants of the new algorithm. We provide the stability analysis of the asynchronous variant in the round-robin scheme and compare it with the more common parallelized method ADMM. We show that the stability of EASGD is guaranteed when a simple stability condition is satisfied, which is not the case for ADMM. We additionally propose the momentum-based version of our algorithm that can be applied in both synchronous and asynchronous settings. Asynchronous variant of the algorithm is applied to train convolutional neural networks for image classification on the CIFAR and ImageNet datasets. Experiments demonstrate that the new algorithm accelerates the training of deep architectures compared to DOWNPOUR and other common baseline approaches and furthermore is very communication efficient.
Learning with Group Invariant Features: A Kernel Perspective.,We analyze in this paper a random feature map based on a  theory of invariance (\emph{I-theory}) introduced in \cite{AnselmiLRMTP13}. More specifically, a group invariant  signal signature is obtained through cumulative distributions of group-transformed random projections. Our analysis bridges invariant feature learning with kernel methods, as we show that this feature map defines an expected Haar-integration kernel that is invariant to the specified group action. We show how this non-linear random feature map approximates this group invariant kernel uniformly on a  set of $N$ points. Moreover, we show that it defines a function space that is dense in the equivalent Invariant Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space. Finally, we quantify error rates of the convergence of the empirical risk minimization, as well as the reduction in the sample complexity of a learning algorithm using such an invariant representation for signal classification, in a classical supervised learning setting
Linear Response Methods for Accurate Covariance Estimates from Mean Field Variational Bayes,Mean field variational Bayes (MFVB) is a popular posterior approximation method due to its fast runtime on large-scale data sets. However, a well known failing of MFVB is that it underestimates the uncertainty of model variables (sometimes severely) and provides no information about model variable covariance. We generalize linear response methods from statistical physics to deliver accurate uncertainty estimates for model variables---both for individual variables and coherently across variables. We call our method linear response variational Bayes (LRVB). When the MFVB posterior approximation is in the exponential family, LRVB has a simple, analytic form, even for non-conjugate models. Indeed, we make no assumptions about the form of the true posterior. We demonstrate the accuracy and scalability of our method on a range of models for both simulated and real data.
Probabilistic Line Searches for Stochastic Optimization,In deterministic optimization, line searches are a standard tool ensuring stability and efficiency. Where only stochastic gradients are available, no direct equivalent has so far been formulated, because uncertain gradients do not allow for a strict sequence of decisions collapsing the search space. We construct a probabilistic line search by combining the structure of existing deterministic methods with notions from Bayesian optimization. Our method retains a Gaussian process surrogate of the univariate optimization objective, and uses a probabilistic belief over the Wolfe conditions to monitor the descent. The algorithm has very low computational cost, and no user-controlled parameters. Experiments show that it effectively removes the need to define a learning rate for stochastic gradient descent. 
A hybrid sampler for Poisson-Kingman mixture models,This paper concerns the introduction of a new Markov Chain Monte Carlo scheme for posterior sampling in Bayesian nonparametric mixture models with priors that belong to the general Poisson-Kingman class. We present a novel and compact way of representing the infinite dimensional component of the model such that while explicitly representing this infinite component it has less memory and storage requirements than previous MCMC schemes. We describe  comparative  simulation  results  demonstrating  the  efficacy  of  the  proposed MCMC algorithm against existing marginal and conditional MCMC samplers.
Tree-Guided MCMC Inference for Normalized Random Measure Mixture Models,Normalized random measures (NRMs) provide a broad class of discrete random measures that are often used as priors for Bayesian nonparametric models. Dirichlet process is a well-known example of NRMs. Most of posterior inference methods for NRM mixture models rely on MCMC methods since they are easy to implement and their convergence is well studied. However, MCMC often suffers from slow convergence when the acceptance rate is low. Tree-based inference is an alternative deterministic posterior inference method, where Bayesian hierarchical clustering (BHC) or incremental Bayesian hierarchical clustering (IBHC) have been developed for DP or NRM mixture (NRMM) models, respectively. Although IBHC is a promising method for posterior inference for NRMM models due to its efficiency and applicability to online inference, its convergence is not guaranteed since it uses heuristics that simply selects the best solution after multiple trials are made. In this paper, we present a hybrid inference algorithm for NRMM models, which combines the merits of both MCMC and IBHC. Trees built by IBHC outlinespartitions of data, which guides Metropolis-Hastings procedure to employ appropriate proposals. Inheriting the nature of MCMC, our tree-guided MCMC (tgMCMC) is guaranteed to converge, and enjoys the fast convergence thanks to the effective proposals guided by trees. Experiments on both synthetic and real world datasets demonstrate the benefit of our method.
Reflection, Refraction, and Hamiltonian Monte Carlo,Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) is a successful approach for sampling from continuous densities. However, it has difficulty simulating Hamiltonian dynamics with non-smooth functions, leading to poor performance. This paper is motivated by the behavior of Hamiltonian dynamics in physical systems like optics. We introduce a modification of the Leapfrog discretization of Hamiltonian dynamics on piecewise continuous energies, where intersections of the trajectory with discontinuities are detected, and the momentum is reflected or refracted to compensate for the change in energy. We prove that this method preserves the correct stationary distribution when boundaries are affine. Experiments show that by reducing the number of rejected samples, this method improves on traditional HMC.
Planar Ultrametrics for Image Segmentation,We study the problem of hierarchical clustering on planar graphs. We formulate this in terms of finding the closest ultrametric to a specified set of distances and solve it using an LP relaxation that leverages minimum cost perfect matching as a subroutine to efficiently explore the space of planar partitions. We apply our algorithm to the problem of hierarchical image segmentation.
Learning Bayesian Networks with Thousands of Variables,We present a method for learning Bayesian networks from data sets containingthousands of variables without the need for structure constraints. Our approachis made of two parts. The first is a novel algorithm that effectively explores thespace of possible parent sets of a node. It guides the exploration towards themost promising parent sets on the basis of an approximated score function thatis computed in constant time. The second part is an improvement of an existingordering-based algorithm for structure optimization. The new algorithm provablyachieves a higher score compared to its original formulation. On very large datasets containing up to ten thousand nodes, our novel approach consistently outper-forms the state of the art.
Parallel Predictive Entropy Search for Batch Global Optimization of Expensive Objective Functions,We develop \textit{parallel predictive entropy search} (PPES), a novel algorithm for Bayesian optimization of expensive black-box objective functions. At each iteration, PPES aims to select a \textit{batch} of points which will maximize the information gain about the global maximizer of the objective.  Well known strategies exist for suggesting a single evaluation point based on previous observations, while far fewer are known for selecting batches of points to evaluate in parallel. The few batch selection schemes that have been studied all resort to greedy methods to compute an optimal batch. To the best of our knowledge, PPES is the first non-greedy batch Bayesian optimization strategy. We demonstrate the benefit of this approach in optimization performance on both synthetic and real world applications, including problems in machine learning, rocket science and robotics.
Rapidly Mixing Gibbs Sampling for a Class of Factor Graphs Using Hierarchy Width,Gibbs sampling on factor graphs is a widely used inference technique, which often produces good empirical results. Theoretical guarantees for its performance are weak: even for tree structured graphs, the mixing time of Gibbs may be exponential in the number of variables. To help understand the behavior of Gibbs sampling, we introduce a new (hyper)graph property, called hierarchy width. We show that under suitable conditions on the weights, bounded hierarchy width ensures polynomial mixing time.  Our study of hierarchy width is in part motivated by a class of factor graph templates, hierarchical templates, which have bounded hierarchy widthregardless of the data used to instantiate them. We demonstrate a rich application from natural language processing in which Gibbs sampling provably mixes rapidly and achieves accuracy that exceeds human volunteers.
On some provably correct cases of variational inference for topic models,Variational inference is an efficient, popular heuristic used in the context of latent variable models. We provide the first analysis of instances where variational inference algorithms converge to the global optimum, in the setting of topic models. Our initializations are natural, one of them being used in LDA-c, the mostpopular implementation of variational inference.In addition to providing intuition into why this heuristic might work in practice, the multiplicative, rather than additive nature of the variational inference updates forces us to usenon-standard proof arguments, which we believe might be of general theoretical interest. 
Large-scale probabilistic predictors with and without guarantees of validity,This paper studies theoretically and empirically a method of turning machine-learning algorithms into probabilistic predictors that automatically enjoys a property of validity (perfect calibration) and is computationally efficient. The price to pay for perfect calibration is that these probabilistic predictors produce imprecise (in practice, almost precise for large data sets) probabilities. When these imprecise probabilities are merged into precise probabilities, the resulting predictors, while losing the theoretical property of perfect calibration, are consistently more accurate than the existing methods in empirical studies.
On the Accuracy of Self-Normalized Log-Linear Models,Calculation of the log-normalizer is a major computational obstacle in applications of log-linear models with large output spaces. The problem of fast normalizer computation has therefore attracted significant attention in the theoretical and applied machine learning literature. In this paper, we analyze a recently proposed technique known as ``self-normalization'', which introduces a regularization term in training to penalize log normalizers for deviating from zero. This makes it possible to use unnormalized model scores as approximate probabilities. Empirical evidence suggests that self-normalization is extremely effective, but a theoretical understanding of why it should work, and how generally it can be applied, is largely lacking.We prove upper bounds on the loss in accuracy due to self-normalization, describe classes of input distributionsthat self-normalize easily, and construct explicit examples of high-variance input distributions. Our theoretical results make predictions about the difficulty of fitting  self-normalized models to several classes of distributions, and we conclude with empirical validation of these predictions on both real and synthetic datasets.
Policy Evaluation Using the -Return,We propose the -return as an alternative to the -return currently used by the TD() family of algorithms. The benefit of the -return is that it accounts for the correlation of different length returns. Because it is difficult to compute exactly, we suggest one way of approximating the -return. We provide empirical studies that suggest that it is superior to the -return and -return for a variety of problems.
Community Detection via Measure Space Embedding,We present a new algorithm for community detection. The algorithm uses random walks to embed the graph in a space of measures, after which a modification of $k$-means in that space is applied. The algorithm is therefore fast and easily parallelizable. We evaluate the algorithm on standard random graph benchmarks, including some overlapping community benchmarks,  and find its performance to be better or at least as good as previously known  algorithms. We also prove a linear time (in number of edges) guarantee for the algorithm on a $p,q$-stochastic block model with  where $p \geq c\cdot N^{-\half +  \epsilon}$ and $p-q \geq c' \sqrt{p N^{-\half +  \epsilon} \log N}$. 
The Consistency of Common Neighbors for Link Prediction in Stochastic Blockmodels,Link prediction and clustering are key problems for network-structureddata. While spectral clustering has strong theoretical guaranteesunder the popular stochastic blockmodel formulation of networks, itcan be expensive for large graphs. On the other hand, the heuristic ofpredicting links to nodes that share the most common neighbors withthe query node is much fast, and works very well in practice. We showtheoretically that the common neighbors heuristic can extract clustersw.h.p. when the graph is dense enough, and can do so even in sparsergraphs with the addition of a ``cleaning'' step. Empirical results onsimulated and real-world data support our conclusions.
Inference for determinantal point processes without spectral knowledge,Determinantal point processes (DPPs) are point process models thatnaturally encode diversity between the points of agiven realization, through a positive definite kernel $K$. DPPs possess desirable properties, such as exactsampling or analyticity of the moments, but learning the parameters ofkernel $K$ through likelihood-based inference is notstraightforward. First, the kernel that appears in thelikelihood is not $K$, but another kernel $L$ related to $K$ throughan often intractable spectral decomposition. This issue is typically bypassed in machine learning bydirectly parametrizing the kernel $L$, at the price of someinterpretability of the model parameters. We follow this approachhere. Second, the likelihood has an intractable normalizingconstant, which takes the form of large determinant in the case of aDPP over a finite set of objects, and the form of a Fredholm determinant in thecase of a DPP over a continuous domain. Our main contribution is to derive bounds on the likelihood ofa DPP, both for finite and continuous domains. Unlike previous work, our bounds arecheap to evaluate since they do not rely on approximating the spectrumof a large matrix or an operator. Through usual arguments, these bounds thus yield cheap variationalinference and moderately expensive exact Markov chain Monte Carlo inference methods for DPPs.
Sample Complexity of Learning Mahalanobis Distance Metrics,Metric learning seeks a transformation of the feature space that enhances prediction quality for a given task. In this work we provide PAC-style sample complexity rates for supervised metric learning. We give matching lower- and upper-bounds showing that sample complexity scales with the representation dimension when no assumptions are made about the underlying data distribution. In addition, by leveraging the structure of the data distribution, we provide rates fine-tuned to a specific notion of the intrinsic complexity of a given dataset, allowing us to relax the dependence on representation dimension. We show both theoretically and empirically that augmenting the metric learning optimization criterion with a simple norm-based regularization is important and can help adapt to a datasets intrinsic complexity yielding better generalization, thus partly explaining the empirical success of similar regularizations reported in previous works.
Matrix Manifold Optimization for Gaussian Mixtures,We take a new look at parameter estimation for Gaussian Mixture Model (GMMs). Specifically, we advance Riemannian manifold optimization (on the manifold of positive definite matrices) as a potential replacement for Expectation Maximization (EM), which has been the de facto standard for decades. An out-of-the-box invocation of Riemannian optimization, however, fails spectacularly: it obtains the same solution as EM, but vastly slower. Building on intuition from geometric convexity, we propose a simple reformulation that has remarkable consequences: it makes Riemannian optimization not only match EM (a nontrivial result on its own, given the poor record nonlinear programming has had against EM), but also outperform it in many settings. To bring our ideas to fruition, we develop a well-tuned Riemannian LBFGS method that proves superior to known competing methods (e.g., Riemannian conjugate gradient). We hope that our results encourage a wider consideration of manifold optimization in machine learning and statistics.
Frank-Wolfe Bayesian Quadrature: Probabilistic Integration with Theoretical Guarantees,There is renewed interest in formulating integration as an inference problem, motivated by obtaining a full distribution over numerical error that can be propagated through subsequent computation. Current methods, such as Bayesian Quadrature, demonstrate impressive empirical performance but lack theoretical analysis. An important challenge is to reconcile these probabilistic integrators with rigorous convergence guarantees. In this paper, we present the first probabilistic integrator that admits such theoretical treatment, called Frank-Wolfe Bayesian Quadrature (FWBQ). Under FWBQ, convergence to the true value of the integral is shown to be exponential and posterior contraction rates are proven to be superexponential. In simulations, FWBQ is competitive with state-of-the-art methods and out-performs alternatives based on Frank-Wolfe optimisation. Our approach is applied to successfully quantify numerical error in the solution to a challenging model choice problem in cellular biology.
Scale Up Nonlinear Component Analysis with Doubly Stochastic Gradients,Nonlinear component analysis such as kernel Principle Component Analysis (KPCA) and kernel Canonical Correlation Analysis (KCCA) are widely used in machine learning, statistics and data analysis, but they can not scale up to big datasets. Recent attempts have employed random feature approximations to convert the problem to the primal form for linear computational complexity. However, to obtain high quality solutions, the number of random features should be the same order of magnitude as the number of data points, making such approach not directly applicable to the regime with millions of data points.We propose a simple, computationally efficient, and memory friendly algorithm based on the ``doubly stochastic gradients'' to scale up a range of kernel nonlinear component analysis, such as kernel PCA, CCA and SVD. Despite the \emph{non-convex} nature of these problems, our method enjoys theoretical guarantees that it converges at the rate $\Otil(1/t)$ to the global optimum, even for the top $k$ eigen subspace. Unlike many alternatives, our algorithm does not require explicit orthogonalization, which is infeasible on big datasets. We demonstrate the effectiveness and scalability of our algorithm on large scale synthetic and real world datasets.
The Self-Normalized Estimator for Counterfactual Learning,This paper identifies a severe problem of the counterfactual risk estimator typically used in batch learning from logged bandit feedback (BLBF), and proposes the use of an alternative estimator that avoids this problem.In the BLBF setting, the learner does not receive full-information feedback like in supervised learning, but observes feedback only for the actions taken by a historical policy.This makes BLBF algorithms particularly attractive for training online systems (e.g., ad placement, web search, recommendation) using their historical logs.The Counterfactual Risk Minimization (CRM) principle offers a general recipe for designing BLBF algorithms. It requires a counterfactual risk estimator, and virtually all existing works on BLBF have focused on a particular unbiased estimator.We show that this conventional estimator suffers from apropensity overfitting problem when used for learning over complex hypothesis spaces.We propose to replace the risk estimator with a self-normalized estimator, showing that it neatly avoids this problem.This naturally gives rise to a new learning algorithm -- Normalized Policy Optimizer for Exponential Models (Norm-POEM) --for structured output prediction using linear rules.We evaluate the empirical effectiveness of Norm-POEM on severalmulti-label classification problems, finding that it consistently outperforms the conventional estimator.
Distributionally Robust Logistic Regression,This paper proposes a distributionally robust approach to logistic regression. We use the Wasserstein distance to construct a ball in the space of probability distributions centered at the uniform distribution on the training samples. If the radius of this Wasserstein ball is chosen judiciously, we can guarantee that it contains the unknown data-generating distribution with high confidence. We then formulate a distributionally robust logistic regression model that minimizes a worst-case expected logloss function, where the worst case is taken over all distributions in the Wasserstein ball. We prove that this optimization problem admits a tractable reformulation and encapsulates the classical as well as the popular regularized logistic regression problems as special cases. We further propose a distributionally robust approach based on Wasserstein balls to compute upper and lower confidence bounds on the misclassification probability of the resulting classifier. These bounds are given by the optimal values of two highly tractable linear programs. We validate our theoretical out-of-sample guarantees through simulated and empirical experiments.
Top-k Multiclass SVM,Class ambiguity is typical in image classification problems with a large number of classes. When classes are difficult to discriminate, it makes sense to allow k guesses and evaluate classifiers based on the top-k error instead of the standard zero-one loss. We propose top-k multiclass SVM as a direct method to optimize for top-k performance. Our generalization of the well-known multiclass SVM is based on a tight convex upper bound of the top-k error. We propose a fast optimization scheme based on an efficient projection onto the top-k simplex, which is of its own interest. Experiments on five datasets show consistent improvements in top-k accuracy compared to various baselines.
Measuring Sample Quality with Stein's Method,To improve the efficiency of Monte Carlo estimation, practitioners are turning to biased Markov chain Monte Carlo procedures that trade off asymptotic exactness for computational speed.  The reasoning is sound: a reduction in variance due to more rapid sampling can outweigh the bias introduced.  However, the inexactness creates new challenges for sampler and parameter selection, since standard measures of sample quality like effective sample size do not account for asymptotic bias.  To address these challenges, we introduce a new computable quality measure based on Stein's method that bounds the discrepancy between sample and target expectations over a large class of test functions.  We use our tool to compare exact, biased, and deterministic sample sequences and illustrate applications to hyperparameter selection, convergence rate assessment, and quantifying bias-variance tradeoffs in posterior inference.
Asynchronous Parallel Stochastic Gradient for Nonconvex Optimization,The asynchronous parallel implementations of stochastic gradient (SG) have been broadly used in solving deep neural network and received many successes in practice recently. However, existing theories cannot explain their convergence and speedup properties, mainly due to the nonconvexity of most deep learning formulations and the asynchronous parallel mechanism. To fill the gaps in theory and provide theoretical supports, this paper studies two asynchronous parallel implementations of SG: one is on the computer network and the other is on the shared memory system. We establish an ergodic convergence rate $O(1/\sqrt{K})$ for both algorithms and prove that the linear speedup is achievable if the number of workers is bounded by $\sqrt{K}$ ($K$ is the total number of iterations). Our results generalize and improve existing analysis for convex minimization.
Distributed Submodular Cover: Succinctly Summarizing Massive Data,How can one find a subset, ideally as small as possible, that well represents a massive dataset? I.e., its corresponding utility, measured according to a suitable utility function, should be comparable to that of the whole dataset. In this paper, we formalize this challenge as a submodular cover problem. Here, the utility is assumed to exhibit submodularity, a natural diminishing returns condition preva- lent in many data summarization applications. The classical greedy algorithm is known to provide solutions with logarithmic approximation guarantees compared to the optimum solution. However, this sequential, centralized approach is imprac- tical for truly large-scale problems. In this work, we develop the first distributed algorithm  DISCOVER  for submodular set cover that is easily implementable using MapReduce-style computations. We theoretically analyze our approach, and present approximation guarantees for the solutions returned by DISCOVER. We also study a natural trade-off between the communication cost and the num- ber of rounds required to obtain such a solution. In our extensive experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on several applications, includ- ing active set selection, exemplar based clustering, and vertex cover on tens of millions of data points using Spark.
Parallel Correlation Clustering on Big Graphs,Given a similarity graph between items, correlation clustering (CC) groups similar items together and dissimilar ones apart. One of the most popular CC algorithms is KwikCluster:  an algorithm that serially clusters neighborhoods of vertices, and obtains a 3-approximation ratio. Unfortunately, in practice KwikCluster requires a large number of clustering rounds, a potential bottleneck for large graphs.We present C4 and ClusterWild!, two algorithms for parallel correlation clustering that run in a polylogarithmic number of rounds, and provably achieve nearly linear speedups. C4 uses concurrency control to enforce serializability of a parallel clustering process, and guarantees a 3-approximation ratio. ClusterWild! is a coordination free algorithm that abandons consistency for the benefit of better scaling; this leads to a provably small loss in the 3 approximation ratio.We provide extensive experimental results for both algorithms,  where we outperform the state of the art, both in terms of clustering accuracy and running time. We show that our algorithms can cluster billion-edge graphs in under 5 seconds on 32 cores, while achieving a 15x speedup.
Fast Bidirectional Probability Estimation in Markov Models,We develop a new bidirectional algorithm for estimating Markov chain multi-step transition probabilities: given a Markov chain, we want to estimate the probability of hitting a given target state in $\ell$ steps after starting from a given source distribution. Given the target state $t$, we use a (reverse) local power iteration to construct an `expanded target distribution', which has the same mean as the quantity we want to estimate, but a smaller variance -- this can then be sampled efficiently by a Monte Carlo algorithm. Our method extends to any Markov chain on a discrete (finite or countable) state-space, and can be extended to compute functions of multi-step transition probabilities such as PageRank, graph diffusions, hitting/return times, etc. Our main result is that in `sparse' Markov Chains -- wherein the number of transitions between states is  comparable to the number of states -- the running time of our algorithm for a uniform-random target node is order-wise smaller than Monte Carlo and power iteration based algorithms; in particular, our method can estimate a probability $p$ using only $O(1/\sqrt{p})$ running time. 
Evaluating the statistical significance of biclusters,Biclustering (also known as submatrix localization) is a problem of high practical relevance in exploratory analysis of high-dimensional data. We develop a framework for performing statistical inference on biclusters found by score-based algorithms. Since the bicluster was selected in a data dependent manner by a biclustering or localization algorithm, this is a form of selective inference. Our framework gives exact (non-asymptotic) confidence intervals and p-values for the significance of the selected biclusters. Further, we generalize our approach to obtain exact inference for Gaussian statistics.
Regularization Path of Cross-Validation Error Lower Bounds,Careful tuning of a regularization parameter is indispensable in many machine learning tasks because it has a significant impact on generalization performances.Nevertheless, current practice of regularization parameter tuning is more of an art than a science, e.g., it is hard to tell how many grid-points would be needed in cross-validation (CV) for obtaining a solution with sufficiently small CV error.In this paper we propose a novel framework for computing a lower bound of the CV errors as a function of the regularization parameter, which we call regularization path of CV error lower bounds.The proposed framework can be used for providing a theoretical approximation guarantee on a set of solutions in the sense that how far the CV error of the current best solution could be away from best possible CV error in the entire range of the regularization parameters.We demonstrate through numerical experiments that a theoretically guaranteed a choice of regularization parameter in the above sense is possible with reasonable computational costs.
Sampling from Probabilistic Submodular Models,Submodular and supermodular functions have found wide applicability in machine learning, capturing  notions such as diversity and regularity, respectively. These notions have deep consequences for optimization, and the problem of (approximately) optimizing submodular functions has received much attention. However, beyond optimization, these notions allow specifying expressive probabilistic models that can be used to quantify predictive uncertainty via marginal inference. Prominent, well-studied special cases include Ising models and determinantal point processes, but the general class of log-submodular and log-supermodular models is much richer and little studied. In this paper, we investigate the use of Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling to perform approximate inference in general log-submodular and log-supermodular models. In particular, we consider a simple Gibbs sampling procedure, and establish two sufficient conditions, the first guaranteeing polynomial-time, and the second fast (O(nlogn)) mixing. We also evaluate the efficiency of the Gibbs sampler on three examples of such models, and compare against a recently proposed variational approach.
Submodular Hamming Metrics,We show that there is a largely unexplored class of functions (positive polymatroids) that can define proper discrete metrics over pairs of binary vectors and that are fairly tractable to optimize over.  By exploiting submodularity, we are able to give hardness results and approximation algorithms for optimizing over such metrics.  Additionally, we demonstrate empirically the effectiveness of these metrics and associated algorithms on both a metric minimization task (a form of clustering) and also a metric maximization task (generating diverse k-best lists).
Extending Gossip Algorithms to Distributed Estimation of U-statistics,Efficient and robust algorithms for decentralized estimation in networks are essential to many distributed systems. Whereas distributed estimation of sample mean statistics has been the subject of a good deal of attention, computation of U-statistics, relying on more expensive averaging over pairs of observations, is a less investigated area. Yet, such data functionals are essential to describe global properties of a statistical population, with important examples including Area Under the Curve, empirical variance, Gini mean difference and within-cluster point scatter. This paper proposes new synchronous and asynchronous randomized gossip algorithms which simultaneously propagate data across the network and maintain local estimates of the U-statistic of interest. We establish convergence rate bounds of O(1 / t) and O(log t / t) for the synchronous and asynchronous cases respectively, where t is the number of iterations, with explicit data and network dependent terms. Beyond favorable comparisons in terms of rate analysis, numerical experiments provide empirical evidence the proposed algorithms surpasses the previously introduced approach.
Newton-Stein Method: A Second Order Method for GLMs via Stein's Lemma,We consider the problem of efficiently computing the maximum likelihood estimator in Generalized Linear Models (GLMs)when the number of observations is much larger than the number of coefficients (n > > p > > 1). In this regime, optimization algorithms can immensely benefit fromapproximate second order information.We propose an alternative way of constructing the curvature information by formulatingit as an estimation problem and applying a Stein-type lemma, which allows further improvements through sub-sampling andeigenvalue thresholding.Our algorithm enjoys fast convergence rates, resembling that of second order methods, with modest per-iteration cost. We provide its convergence analysis for the case where the rows of the design matrix are i.i.d. samples with bounded support.We show that the convergence has two phases, aquadratic phase followed by a linear phase. Finally,we empirically demonstrate that our algorithm achieves the highest performancecompared to various algorithms on several datasets.
Collaboratively Learning Preferences from Ordinal Data,In personalized recommendation systems, it is important to predict preferences of a user on items that have not been seen by that user yet. Similarly, in revenue management, it is important to predict outcomes of comparisons among those items that have never been compared so far. The MultiNomial Logit model, a popular discrete choice model, captures  the structure of the hidden preferences  with a low-rank matrix. In order to predict the preferences, we want to learn the underlying model from noisy observations of the low-rank matrix, collected as revealed preferences in various forms of ordinal data. A natural approach to learn such a model is to solve a convex relaxation of nuclear norm minimization. We present the convex relaxation approach in two contexts of interest: collaborative ranking and bundled choice modeling. In both cases, we show that the convex relaxation is minimax optimal. We prove an upper bound on the resulting error with finite samples, and  provide a matching information-theoretic lower bound. 
SGD Algorithms based on Incomplete U-statistics: Large-Scale Minimization of Empirical Risk,In many learning problems, ranging from clustering to ranking through metric learning, empirical estimates of the risk functional consist of an average over tuples (e.g., pairs or triplets) of observations, rather than over individual observations. In this paper, we focus on how to best implement a stochastic approximation approach to solve such risk minimization problems. We argue that in the large-scale setting, gradient estimates should be obtained by sampling tuples of data points with replacement (incomplete U-statistics) instead of sampling data points without replacement (complete U-statistics based on subsamples). We develop a theoretical framework accounting for the substantial impact of this strategy on the generalization ability of the prediction model returned by the Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) algorithm. It reveals that the method we promote achieves a much better trade-off between statistical accuracy and computational cost. Beyond the rate bound analysis, experiments on AUC maximization and metric learning provide strong empirical evidence of the superiority of the proposed approach.
Alternating Minimization for Regression Problems with Vector-valued Outputs,In regression problems involving vector-valued outputs (or equivalently, multiple responses), it is well known that the maximum likelihood estimator (MLE), which takes noise covariance structure into account, can be significantly more accurate than the ordinary least squares (OLS) estimator. However, existing  literature compares OLS and MLE in terms of their asymptotic, not finite sample, guarantees. More crucially, computing the MLE in general requires solving a non-convex optimization problem and is not known to be efficiently solvable. We provide finite sample upper and lower bounds on the estimation error of OLS and MLE, in two popular models: a) Pooled model, b) Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) model. We provide precise instances where the MLE is significantly more accurate than OLS. Furthermore, for both models, we show that the output of a computationally efficient alternating minimization procedure enjoys the same performance guarantee as MLE, up to universal constants. Finally, we show that for high-dimensional settings as well, the alternating minimization procedure leads to significantly more accurate solutions than the corresponding OLS solutions but with error bound that depends only logarithmically on the data dimensionality. 
On Variance Reduction in Stochastic Gradient Descent and its Asynchronous Variants,We study optimization algorithms based on variance reduction for stochastic gradientdescent (SGD). Remarkable recent progress has been made in this directionthrough development of algorithms like SAG, SVRG, SAGA. These algorithmshave been shown to outperform SGD, both theoretically and empirically. However,asynchronous versions of these algorithmsa crucial requirement for modernlarge-scale applicationshave not been studied. We bridge this gap by presentinga unifying framework that captures many variance reduction techniques.Subsequently, we propose an asynchronous algorithm grounded in our framework,with fast convergence rates. An important consequence of our general approachis that it yields asynchronous versions of variance reduction algorithms such asSVRG, SAGA as a byproduct. Our method achieves near linear speedup in sparsesettings common to machine learning. We demonstrate the empirical performanceof our method through a concrete realization of asynchronous SVRG.
Subset Selection by Pareto Optimization,Selecting the optimal subset from a large set of variables is a fundamental problem in various learning tasks such as feature selection, sparse regression, dictionary learning, etc. In this paper, we propose the POSS approach which employs evolutionary Pareto optimization to find a small-sized subset with good performance. We prove that for sparse regression, POSS is able to achieve the best-so-far theoretically guaranteed approximation performance efficiently. Particularly, for the \emph{Exponential Decay} subclass, POSS is proven to achieve an optimal solution. Empirical study verifies the theoretical results, and exhibits the superior performance of POSS to greedy and convex relaxation methods.
Interpolating Convex and Non-Convex Tensor Decompositions via the Subspace Norm,We consider the problem of recovering a low-rank tensor from its noisy observation. Previous work has shown a recovery guarantee with signal to noise ratio $O(n^{\ceil{K/2}/2})$ for recovering a $K$th order rank one tensor of size $n\times \cdots \times n$ by recursive unfolding. In this paper, we first improve this bound to $O(n^{K/4})$ by a much simpler approach, but with a more careful analysis. Then we propose a new norm called the \textit{subspace} norm, which is based on the Kronecker products of factors obtained by the proposed simple estimator. The imposed Kronecker structure allows us to show a nearly ideal $O(\sqrt{n}+\sqrt{H^{K-1}})$ bound, in which the parameter $H$ controls the blend from the non-convex estimator to mode-wise nuclear norm minimization. Furthermore, we empirically demonstrate that the subspace norm achieves the nearly ideal denoising performance even with $H=O(1)$.
Minimum Weight Perfect Matching via Blossom Belief Propagation,Max-product Belief Propagation (BP) is a popular message-passing algorithm for computing a Maximum-A-Posteriori (MAP) assignment over a distribution represented by a Graphical Model (GM). It has been shown that BP can solve a number of combinatorial optimization problems including minimum weight matching, shortest path, network flow and vertex cover under the following common assumption: the respective Linear Programming (LP) relaxation is tight, i.e.,  no integrality gap is present.  However, when LP shows an integrality gap, no model has been known which can be solved systematically via sequential applications of BP. In this paper, we develop the first such algorithm, coined Blossom-BP, for solving the minimum weight matching problem over arbitrary graphs. Each step of the sequential algorithm requires applying BP over a modified graph constructed by contractions and expansions of blossoms, i.e., odd sets of vertices. Our scheme guarantees termination in O(n^2) of BP runs, where n is the number of vertices in the original graph. In essence, the Blossom-BP offers a distributed version of the celebrated Edmonds' Blossom algorithm by jumping at once over many sub-steps with a single BP. Moreover, our result provides an interpretation of the Edmonds' algorithm as a sequence of LPs.
b-bit Marginal Regression,We consider the problem of sparse signal recovery from $m$ linear measurements quantized to $b$ bits. $b$-bit Marginal Regression is proposed as recovery algorithm. We study the question of choosing $b$ in the setting of a given budget of bits $B = m \cdot b$ and derive a single easy-to-compute expression characterizing the trade-off between $m$ and $b$. The choice $b = 1$ turns out to be optimal for estimating the unit vector corresponding to the signal for any level of additive Gaussian noise before quantization as well as for adversarial noise. For $b \geq 2$, we show that Lloyd-Max quantization constitutes an optimal quantization scheme and that the norm of the signal canbe estimated consistently by maximum likelihood.
LASSO with Non-linear Measurements is Equivalent to One With Linear Measurements,Consider estimating an unknown, but structured (e.g. sparse, low-rank, etc.), signal $x_0\in R^n$ from a vector $y\in R^m$ of measurements of the form $y_i=g_i(a_i^Tx_0)$, where the $a_i$'s are the rows of a known measurement matrix $A$, and, $g$ is a (potentially unknown) nonlinear and random link-function. Such measurement functions could arise in applications where the measurement device has nonlinearities and uncertainties. It could also arise by design, e.g., $g_i(x)=sign(x+z_i)$, corresponds to noisy 1-bit quantized measurements. Motivated by the classical work of Brillinger, and more recent work of Plan and Vershynin, we estimate $x_0$ via solving the Generalized-LASSO, i.e., $\hat x=\arg\min_{x}\|y-Ax_0\|_2+\lambda f(x)$ for some regularization parameter $\lambda >0$ and some (typically non-smooth) convex regularizer $f$ that promotes the structure of $x_0$, e.g. $\ell_1$-norm, nuclear-norm. While this approach seems to naively ignore the nonlinear function $g$, both Brillinger and Plan and Vershynin have shown that, when the entries of $A$ are iid standard normal, this is a good estimator of $x_0$ up to a constant of proportionality $\mu$, which only depends on $g$. In this work, we considerably strengthen these results by obtaining explicit expressions for $\|\hat x-\mu x_0\|_2$, for the regularized Generalized-LASSO, that are asymptotically precise when $m$ and $n$ grow large. A main result is that the estimation performance of the Generalized LASSO with non-linear measurements is asymptotically the same as one whose measurements are linear $y_i=\mu a_i^Tx_0+\sigma z_i$, with $\mu=E[\gamma g(\gamma)]$ and $\sigma^2=E[(g(\gamma)-\mu\gamma)^2]$, and, $\gamma$ standard normal. The derived expressions on the estimation performance are the first-known precise results in this context. One interesting consequence of our result is that the optimal quantizer of the measurements that minimizes the estimation error of the LASSO is the celebrated Lloyd-Max quantizer.
On the Pseudo-Dimension of Nearly Optimal Auctions,This paper develops a general approach, rooted in statistical learning theory, to learning an approximately revenue-maximizing auction from data. We introduce t-level auctions to interpolate between simple auctions, such as welfare maximization with reserve prices, and optimal auctions, thereby balancing the competing demands of expressivity and simplicity. We prove that such auctions have small representation error, in the sense that for every product distribution F over bidders valuations, there exists a t-level auction with small t and expected revenue close to optimal. We show that the set of t-level auctions has modest pseudo-dimension (for polynomial t) and therefore leads to small learning error. One consequence of our results is that, in arbitrary single-parameter settings, one can learn a mechanism with expected revenue arbitrarily close to optimal from a polynomial number of samples.
Closed-form Estimators for High-dimensional Generalized Linear Models,We propose a class of closed-form estimators for GLMs under high-dimensional sampling regimes. Our class of estimators is based on deriving closed-form variants of the vanilla unregularized MLE but which are (a) well-defined even under high-dimensional settings, and (b) available in closed-form. We then perform thresholding operations on this MLE variant to obtain our class of estimators. We derive a unified statistical analysis of our class of estimators, and show that it enjoys strong statistical guarantees in both parameter error as well as variable selection, that surprisingly match those of the more complex regularized GLM MLEs, even while our closed-form estimators are computationally much simpler. We derive instantiations of our class of closed-form estimators, as well as corollaries of our general theorem, for the special cases of logistic, exponential and Poisson regression models. We corroborate the surprising statistical and computational performance of our class of estimators via extensive simulations.
Fast, Provable Algorithms for Isotonic Regression in all L_p-norms,Given a directed acyclic graph $G,$ and a set of values $y$ on the vertices, the Isotonic Regression of $y$ is a vector $x$ that respects the partial order described by $G,$ and minimizes $\|x-y\|,$ for a specified norm.  This paper gives improved algorithms for computing the Isotonic Regression for all weighted $\ell_{p}$-norms with rigorous performance guarantees. Our algorithms are quite practical, and their variants can be implemented to run fast in practice.
Semi-Proximal Mirror-Prox for Nonsmooth Composite Minimization,We propose a new first-order optimization algorithm to solve high-dimensional  non-smooth composite minimization problems. Typical examples of such problems have an objective that decomposes into a non-smooth empirical risk part and a non-smooth regularization penalty. The proposed algorithm, called Semi-Proximal Mirror-Prox, leverages the saddle point representation of one part of the objective while handling the other part of the objective via linear minimization over the domain. The algorithm stands in contrast with more classical proximal gradient algorithms with smoothing, which require the computation of proximal operators at each iteration and can therefore be impractical for high-dimensional problems. We establish the theoretical convergence rate of Semi-Proximal Mirror-Prox, which exhibits the optimal complexity bounds for the number of calls to linear minimization oracle. We present promising experimental results showing the interest of the approach in comparison to competing methods.
Competitive Distribution Estimation: Why is Good-Turing Good,Estimating distributions over large alphabets is a fundamental machine-learning tenet. Yet no method is known to estimate all distributions well.  For example, add-constant estimators are nearly min-max optimal but often perform poorly in practice, and practical estimators such as absolute discounting, Jelinek-Mercer, and Good-Turing are not known to be near optimal for essentially any distribution.We describe the first universally near-optimal probability estimators. For every discrete distribution, they are provably nearly the best in the following two competitive ways. First they estimate every distribution nearly as well as the best estimator designed with prior knowledge of the distribution up to a permutation. Second, they estimate every distribution nearly as well as the best estimator designed with prior knowledge of the exact distribution, but as all natural estimators, restricted to assign the same probability to all symbols appearing the same number of times.Specifically, for distributions over $k$ symbols and $n$ samples, we show that for both comparisons, a simple variant of Good-Turing estimator is always within KL divergence of $(3+o(1))/n^{1/3}$ from the best estimator, and that a more involved estimator is within $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}(\min(k/n,1/\sqrt n))$.  Conversely, we show that any estimator must have a KL divergence $\ge\tilde\Omega(\min(k/n,1/ n^{2/3}))$ over the best estimator for the first comparison, and $\ge\tilde\Omega(\min(k/n,1/\sqrt{n}))$ for the second.
A Universal Primal-Dual Convex Optimization Framework,We propose a new primal-dual algorithmic framework for a prototypical constrained convex optimization template. The algorithmic instances of our framework are universal since they can automatically adapt to the unknown Holder continuity degree and constant within the dual formulation. They are also guaranteed to have optimal convergence rates in the objective residual and the feasibility gap for each Holder smoothness degree. In contrast to existing primal-dual algorithms, our framework avoids the proximity operator of the objective function. We instead leverage computationally cheaper, Fenchel-type operators, which are the main workhorses of the generalized conditional gradient (GCG)-type methods. In contrast to the GCG-type methods, our framework does not require the objective function to be differentiable, and can also process additional general linear inclusion constraints, while guarantees the convergence rate on the primal problem.
Sample Complexity of Episodic Fixed-Horizon Reinforcement Learning,Recently, there has been significant progress in understanding reinforcement learning in discounted infinite-horizon Markov decision processes (MDPs) by deriving tight sample complexity bounds.  However, in many real-world applications, an interactive learning agent operates for a fixed or bounded period of time, for example tutoring students for exams or handling customer service requests. Such scenarios can often be better treated as episodic fixed-horizon MDPs, for which only looser bounds on the sample complexity exist. A natural notion of sample complexity in this setting is the number of episodes required to guarantee a certain performance with high probability (PAC guarantee). In this paper, we derive an upper PAC bound of order O(|S||A|H log(1/)/)  and a lower PAC bound (|S||A|H log(1/(+c))/) (ignoring log-terms) that match up to log-terms and an additional linear dependency on the number of states |S|.  The lower bound is the first of its kind for this setting. Our upper bound leverages Bernstein's inequality to improve on previous bounds for episodic finite-horizon MDPs which have a time-horizon dependency of at least H.
Private Graphon Estimation for Sparse Graphs,We design algorithms for fitting a high-dimensional statistical model to a large, sparse network without revealing sensitive information of individual members.  Given a sparse input graph $G$, our algorithms output a node-differentially private nonparametric block model approximation.  By node-differentially private, we mean that our output hides the insertion or removal of a vertex and all its adjacent edges.  If $G$ is an instance of the network obtained from a generative nonparametric model defined in terms of a graphon $W$, our model guarantees consistency: as the number of vertices tends to infinity, the output of our algorithm converges to $W$ in an appropriate version of the $L_2$ norm. In particular, this means we can estimate the sizes of all multi-way cuts in $G$.  Our results hold as long as $W$ is bounded, the average degree of $G$ grows at least like the log of the number of vertices, and the number of blocks goes to infinity at an appropriate rate.  We give explicit error bounds in terms of the parameters of the model; in several settings, our bounds improve on or match known nonprivate results.
HONOR: Hybrid Optimization for NOn-convex Regularized problems,Recent years have witnessed the superiority of non-convex sparse learning formulations over their convex counterparts in both theory and practice. However, due to the non-convexity and non-smoothness of the regularizer, how to efficiently solve the non-convex optimization problem for large-scale data is still quite challenging. In this paper, we propose an efficient \underline{H}ybrid \underline{O}ptimization algorithm for \underline{NO}n convex \underline{R}egularized problems (HONOR). Specifically, we develop a hybrid scheme which effectively integrates a Quasi-Newton (QN) step and a Gradient Descent (GD) step. Our contributions are as follows: (1) HONOR incorporates the second-order information to greatly speed up the convergence, while it avoids solving a regularized quadratic programming and only involves matrix-vector multiplications without explicitly forming the inverse Hessian matrix. (2)  We establish a rigorous convergence analysis for HONOR, which shows that convergence is guaranteed even for non-convex problems, while it is typically challenging to analyze the convergence for non-convex problems. (3) We conduct empirical studies on large-scale data sets and results demonstrate that HONOR converges significantly faster than state-of-the-art algorithms.
A Convergent Gradient Descent Algorithm for Rank Minimization and Semidefinite Programming from Random Linear Measurements,We propose a simple, scalable, and fast gradient descent algorithm to optimize a nonconvex objective for the rank minimization problem and a closely related family of semidefinite programs.  With $O(r^3 \kappa^2 n \log n)$ random measurements of a positive semidefinite $n\times n$ matrix of rank $r$ and condition number $\kappa$, our method is guaranteed to converge linearly to the global optimum.
Super-Resolution Off the Grid,  Super-resolution is the problem of recovering a superposition of point sources using bandlimited measurements, which may be corrupted with noise. This signal processing problem arises in numerous imaging problems, ranging from astronomy to biology to spectroscopy, where it is common to take (coarse) Fourier measurements of an object. Of particular interest is in obtaining estimation procedures which are robust to noise, with the following desirable statistical and computational properties: we seek to use coarse Fourier measurements (bounded by some \emph{cutoff frequency}); we hope to take a (quantifiably) small number of measurements; we desire our algorithm to run quickly.  Suppose we have $k$ point sources in $d$ dimensions, where the points are separated by at least $\Delta$ from each other (in Euclidean distance). This work provides an algorithm with the following favorable guarantees:1. The algorithm uses Fourier measurements, whose frequencies are bounded by $O(1/\Delta)$ (up to log factors). Previous algorithms require a \emph{cutoff frequency}  which may be as large as  $\Omega(\sqrt{d}/\Delta)$.2. The number of measurements taken by and the computational complexity of our algorithm are bounded by a polynomial in both the number of points $k$ and the dimension $d$, with \emph{no} dependence on the separation $\Delta$. In contrast, previous algorithms depended inverse polynomially  on the minimal separation and exponentially on the dimension for both of these quantities.Our estimation procedure itself is simple: we take random bandlimited measurements (as opposed to taking an exponential number of measurements on the hyper-grid). Furthermore, our analysis and algorithm are elementary (based on concentration bounds of sampling and singular value decomposition).
Optimal Rates for Random Fourier Features,Kernel methods represent one of the most powerful tools in machine learning to tackle problems expressed in terms of function values and derivatives due to their capability to represent and model complex relations. While these methods show good versatility, they are computationally intensive and have poor scalability to large data as they require operations on Gram matrices. In order to mitigate this serious computational limitation, recently randomized constructions have been proposed in the literature, which allow the application of fast linear algorithms. Random Fourier features (RFF) are among the most popular and widely applied constructions: they provide an easily computable, low-dimensional feature representation for shift-invariant kernels. Despite the popularity of RFFs, very little is understood theoretically about their approximation quality. In this paper, we provide a detailed finite-sample theoretical analysis about the approximation quality of RFFs by (i) establishing optimal (in terms of the RFF dimension, and growing set size) performance guarantees in uniform norm, and (ii) presenting guarantees in L^r (1  r < ) norms. We also propose an RFF approximation to derivatives of a kernel with a theoretical study on its approximation quality.
Combinatorial Bandits Revisited,This paper investigates stochastic and adversarial combinatorial multi-armed bandit problems. In the stochastic setting under semi-bandit feedback, we derive a problem-specific regret lower bound, and discuss its scaling with the dimension of the decision space. We propose ESCB, an algorithm that efficiently exploits the structure of the problem and provide a finite-time analysis of its regret. ESCB has better performance guarantees than existing algorithms, and significantly outperforms these algorithms in practice. In the adversarial setting under bandit feedback, we propose CombEXP, an algorithm with the same regret scaling as state-of-the-art algorithms, but with lower computational complexity for some combinatorial problems.
Fast Convergence of Regularized Learning in Games,We show that natural classes of regularized learning algorithms with a form of recency bias achieve faster convergence rates to approximate efficiency and to coarse correlated equilibria in multiplayer normal form games. When each player in a game uses an algorithm from our class, their individual regret decays at $O(T^{-3/4})$, while the sum of utilities converges to an approximate optimum at $O(T^{-1})$--an improvement upon the worst case $O(T^{-1/2})$ rates. We show a black-box reduction for any algorithm in the class to achieve $\tilde{O}(T^{-1/2})$ rates against an adversary, while maintaining the faster rates against algorithms in the class. Our results extend those of Rakhlin and Shridharan~\cite{Rakhlin2013} and Daskalakis et al.~\cite{Daskalakis2014}, who only analyzed two-player zero-sum games for specific algorithms.
On Elicitation Complexity,Elicitation is the study of statistics or properties which are computable via empirical risk minimization.  While several recent papers have approached the general question of which properties are elicitable, we suggest that this is the wrong question---all properties are elicitable by first eliciting the entire distribution or data set, and thus the important question is how elicitable.  Specifically, what is the minimum number of regression parameters needed to compute the property?Building on previous work, we introduce a new notion of elicitation complexity and lay the foundations for a calculus of elicitation.  We establish several general results and techniques for proving upper and lower bounds on elicitation complexity.  These results provide tight bounds for eliciting the Bayes risk of any loss, a large class of properties which includes spectral risk measures and several new properties of interest.
Online Learning with Adversarial Delays,We study the performance of standard online learning algorithms when the feedback is delayed by an adversary. We show that \texttt{online-gradient-descent} and \texttt{follow-the-perturbed-leader} achieve regret $O(\sqrt{D})$ in the delayed setting, where $D$ is the sum of delays of each round's feedback. This bound collapses to an optimal $O(\sqrt{T})$ bound in the usual setting of no delays (where $D = T$).  Our main contribution is to show that standard algorithms for online learning already have simple regret bounds in the most general setting of delayed feedback, making adjustments to the analysis and not to the algorithms themselves.  Our results help affirm and clarify the success of recent algorithms in optimization and machine learning that operate in a delayed feedback model.
Structured Estimation with Atomic Norms: General Bounds and Applications,For structured estimation problems with atomic norms, recent advances in the literature express sample complexity and estimation error bounds in terms of certain geometric measures, in particular Gaussian width of the unit norm ball, Gaussian width of a spherical cap induced by a tangent cone, and a restricted norm compatibility constant. However, given an atomic norm, bounding these geometric measures can be difficult. In this paper, we present general upper bounds for such geometric measures, which only require simple information of the atomic norm under consideration, and we establish tightness of these bounds by providing the corresponding lower bounds. We show applications of our analysis to certain atomic norms, especially k-support norm, for which existing result is incomplete.
Subsampled Power Iteration: a Unified Algorithm for Block Models and Planted CSP's,We present an algorithm for recovering planted solutions in two well-known models, the stochastic block model and planted constraint satisfaction problems (CSP), via a common generalization in terms of random bipartite graphs. Our algorithm matches up to a constant factor the best-known bounds  for the number of edges (or constraints) needed for perfect recovery and its running time is linear in the number of edges used. The time complexity is significantly better than both spectral and SDP-based approaches.The main contribution of the algorithm is in the case of unequal sizes in the bipartition that arises in our reduction from the planted CSP.  Here our algorithm succeeds at a significantly lower density than the spectral approaches, surpassing a barrier based on the spectral norm of a random matrix.Other significant features of the algorithm and analysis include (i) the critical use of power iteration with subsampling, which might be of independent interest; its analysis requires keeping track of multiple norms of an evolving solution (ii) the algorithm can be implemented statistically, i.e., with very limited access to the input distribution (iii) the algorithm is extremely simple to implement and runs in linear time, and thus is practical even for very large instances.
Deep Visual Analogy-Making,In addition to identifying the content within a single image, relating images and generating related images are critical tasks for image understanding. Recently, deep convolutional networks have yielded breakthroughs in producing image labels, annotations and captions, but have only just begun to be used for producing high-quality image outputs. In this paper we develop a novel deep network trained end-to-end to perform visual analogy making, which is the task of transforming a query image according to an example pair of related images. Solving this problem requires both accurately recognizing a visual relationship and generating a transformed query image accordingly. Inspired by recent advances in language modeling, we propose to solve visual analogies by learning to map images to a neural embedding in which analogical reasoning is simple, such as by vector subtraction and addition. In experiments, our model effectively models visual analogies on several datasets: 2D shapes, animated video game sprites, and 3D car models.
Where are they looking?,Humans have the remarkable ability to follow the gaze of other people to identify what they are looking at. Following eye gaze, or gaze-following, is an important ability that allows us to understand what other people are thinking, the actions they are performing, and even predict what they might do next. Despite the importance of this topic, this problem has only been studied in limited scenarios within the computer vision community.  In this paper, we propose a deep neural network-based approach for gaze-following and a new benchmark dataset for thorough evaluation. Given an image and the location of a head, our approach follows the gaze of the person and identifies the object being looked at. After training, the network is able to discover how to extract head pose and gaze orientation, and to select objects in the scene that are in the predicted line of sight and likely to be looked at (such as televisions, balls and food). The quantitative evaluation shows that our approach produces reliable results, even when viewing only the back of the head. While our method outperforms several baseline approaches, we are still far from reaching human performance at this task. Overall, we believe that this is a challenging and important task that deserves more attention from the community. 
Spatial Transformer Networks,Convolutional Neural Networks define an exceptionallypowerful class of model, but are still limited by the lack of abilityto be spatially invariant to the input data in a computationally and parameterefficient manner. In this work we introduce a new learnable module, theSpatial Transformer, which explicitly allows the spatial manipulation ofdata within the network. This differentiable module can be insertedinto existing convolutional architectures, giving neural networks the ability toactively spatially transform feature maps, conditional on the feature map itself,without any extra training supervision or modification to the optimisation process. We show that the useof spatial transformers results in models which learn invariance to translation,scale, rotation and more generic warping, resulting in state-of-the-artperformance on several benchmarks, and for a numberof classes of transformations.
Training Very Deep Networks,Theoretical and empirical evidence indicates that the depth of neural networks is crucial for their success. However, training becomes more difficult as depth increases, and training of very deep networks remains an open problem. Here we introduce a new architecture designed to overcome this. Our so-called highway networks allow unimpeded information flow across many layers on information highways. They are inspired by Long Short-Term Memory recurrent networks and use adaptive gating units to regulate the information flow. Even with hundreds of layers, highway networks can be trained directly through simple gradient descent. This enables the study of extremely deep and efficient architectures.
Attention-Based Models for Speech Recognition,Recurrent sequence generators conditioned on input data through an attention mechanism have recently shown very good performance on a range of tasks including machine translation, handwriting synthesis and image caption generation. We extend the attention-mechanism with features needed for speech recognition. We show that while an adaptation of the model used for machine translation reaches a competitive 18.6\% phoneme error rate (PER) on the TIMIT phoneme recognition task, it can only be applied to utterances which are roughly as long as the ones it was trained on. We offer a qualitative explanation of this failure and propose a novel and generic method of adding location-awareness to the attention mechanism to alleviate this issue. The new method yields a model that is robust to long inputs and achieves 18\% PER in single utterances and 20\% in 10-times longer (repeated) utterances.  Finally, we propose a change to the attention mechanism that prevents it from concentrating too much on single frames, which further reduces PER to 17.6\% level. 
Deep Convolutional Inverse Graphics Network,This paper presents the Deep Convolution Inverse Graphics Network (DC-IGN), a model that aims to learn an interpretable representation of images, disentangled with respect to three-dimensional scene structure and viewing transformations such as depth rotations and lighting variations. The DC-IGN model is composed of multiple layers of convolution and de-convolution operators and is trained using the Stochastic Gradient Variational Bayes (SGVB) algorithm. We propose a training procedure to encourage neurons in the graphics code layer to represent a specific transformation (e.g. pose or light). Given a single input image, our model can generate new images of the same object with variations in pose and lighting. We present qualitative and quantitative tests of the model's efficacy at learning a 3D rendering engine for varied object classes including faces and chairs.
End-To-End Memory Networks,We introduce a neural network with a recurrent attention model over a possibly large external memory. The architecture is a form of Memory Network (Weston et al., 2015) but unlike the model in that work, it is trained end-to-end, and hence requires significantly less supervision during training, making it more generally applicable in realistic settings. It can also be seen as an extension of RNNsearch to the case where multiple computational steps (hops) are performed per output symbol. The flexibility of the model allows us to apply it to tasks as diverse as (synthetic) question answering and to language modeling. For the former our approach is competitive with Memory Networks, but with less supervision. For the latter, on the Penn TreeBank and Text8 datasets our approach demonstrates comparable performance to RNNs and LSTMs. In both cases we show that the key concept of multiple computational hops yields improved results.
Learning to Segment Object Candidates,Recent object detection systems rely on two critical steps: (1) a set of object proposals is predicted as efficiently as possible, and (2) this set of candidate proposals is then passed to an object classifier. Such approaches have been shown they can be fast, while achieving the state of the art in detection performance. In this paper, we propose a new way to generate object proposals, introducing an approach based on a discriminative convolutional network. Our model is trained jointly with two objectives: given an image patch, the first part of the system outputs a class-agnostic segmentation mask, while the second part of the system outputs the likelihood of the patch being centered on a full object. At test time, the model is efficiently applied on the whole test image and generates a set of segmentation masks, each of them being assigned with a corresponding object likelihood score. We show that our model yields significant improvements over state-of-the-art object proposal algorithms. In particular, compared to previous approaches, our model obtains substantially higher object recall using fewer proposals. We also show that our model is able to generalize to unseen categories it has not seen during training. Unlike all previous approaches for generating object masks, we do not rely on edges, superpixels, or any other form of low-level segmentation.
Inferring Algorithmic Patterns with Stack-Augmented Recurrent Nets,Despite the recent achievements in machine learning,  we are still very far from achieving real artificial intelligence. In this paper, we discuss the limitations of standard deep learning approaches and show that some of these limitations can be overcome by learning how to grow the complexity of a model in a structured way. Specifically,  we study the simplest sequence prediction problems that are beyond the scope of what is learnable with standard recurrent networks, algorithmically generated sequences  which can only be learned by models which have the capacity to count and to memorize  sequences. We show that some basic algorithms can be learned from sequential data using a recurrent network associated with a trainable memory.
Attractor Network Dynamics Enable Preplay and Rapid Path Planning in Mazelike Environments,Rodents navigating in a well-known environment can rapidly learn and revisit observed reward locations, often after a single trial. While the mechanism for rapid path planning is unknown, the CA3 region in the hippocampus plays an important role, and emerging evidence suggests that place cell activity during hippocampal "preplay" periods may trace out future goal-directed trajectories. Here, we show how a particular mapping of space allows for the immediate generation of trajectories between arbitrary start and goal locations in an environment, based only on the mapped representation of the goal. We show that this representation can be implemented in a neural attractor network model, resulting in bump--like activity profiles resembling those of the CA3 region of hippocampus. Neurons tend to locally excite neurons with similar place field centers, while inhibiting other neurons with distant place field centers, such that stable bumps of activity can form at arbitrary locations in the environment. The network is initialized to represent a point in the environment, then weakly stimulated with an input corresponding to an arbitrary goal location. We show that the resulting activity can be interpreted as a gradient ascent on the value function induced by a reward at the goal location. Indeed, in networks with large place fields, we show that the network properties cause the bump to move smoothly from its initial location to the goal, around obstacles or walls. Our results illustrate that an attractor network with hippocampal-like attributes may be important for rapid path planning.
Semi-supervised Convolutional Neural Networks for Text Categorization via Region Embedding,This paper presents a new semi-supervised framework with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for text categorization.  Unlike the previous approaches that rely on word embeddings, our method learns embeddings of small text regions from unlabeled data for integration into a supervised CNN.  The proposed scheme for embedding learning is based on the idea of two-view semi-supervised learning, which is intended to be useful for the task of interest even though the training is done on unlabeled data.  Our models achieve better results than previous approaches on sentiment classification and topic classification tasks.
The Return of the Gating Network: Combining Generative Models and Discriminative Training in Natural Image Priors,In recent years, approaches based on machine learning have achieved state-of-the-art performance on image restoration problems. Successful approaches include both generative models of natural images as well as discriminative training of deep neural networks. Discriminative training of feed forward architectures allows explicit control over the computational cost of performing restoration and therefore often leads to better performance at the same cost at run time.  In contrast, generative models have the advantage that they can be trained once and then adapted to any image restoration task by a simple use of Bayes' rule. In this paper we show how to combine the strengths of both approaches by training a discriminative, feed-forward architecture to predict the state of latent variables in a generative model of natural images. We apply this idea to the very successful Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) of natural images. We show that it is possible to achieve comparable performance as the original GMM but with two orders of magnitude improvement in run time while maintaining the advantage of generative models.
Backpropagation for Energy-Efficient Neuromorphic Computing,Solving real world problems with embedded neural networks requires both training algorithms that achieve high performance and compatible hardware that runs in real time while remaining energy efficient. For the former, deep learning using backpropagation has recently achieved a string of successes across many domains and datasets.  For the latter, neuromorphic chips that run spiking neural networks have recently achieved unprecedented energy efficiency. To bring these two advances together, we must first resolve the incompatibility between backpropagation, which uses continuous-output neurons and synaptic weights, and neuromorphic designs, which employ spiking neurons and discrete synapses.  Our approach is to treat spikes and discrete synapses as continuous probabilities, which allows training the network using standard backpropagation. The trained network naturally maps to neuromorphic hardware by sampling the probabilities to create one or more networks, which are merged using ensemble averaging. To demonstrate, we trained a sparsely connected network that runs on the TrueNorth chip using the MNIST dataset. With a high performance network (ensemble of $64$), we achieve $99.42\%$ accuracy at $121 \mu$J per image, and with a high efficiency network (ensemble of $1$) we achieve $92.7\%$ accuracy at $0.408 \mu$J per image.
Learning Wake-Sleep Recurrent Attention Models,Despite their success, convolutional neural networks are computationally expensive because they must examine all image locations. Stochastic attention-based models have been shown to improve computational efficiency at test time, but they remain difficult to train because of intractable posterior inference and high variance in the stochastic gradient estimates. Borrowing techniques from the literature on training deep generative models, we present the Wake-Sleep Recurrent Attention Model, a method for training stochastic attention networks which improves posterior inference and which reduces the variability in the stochastic gradients. We show that our method can greatly speed up the training time for stochastic attention networks in the domains of image classification and caption generation.
On-the-Job Learning with Bayesian Decision Theory,Our goal is to deploy a high-accuracy system starting with zero training examples. We consider an on-the-job setting, where as inputs arrive, we use real-time crowdsourcing to resolve uncertainty where needed and output our prediction when confident. As the model improves over time, the reliance on crowdsourcing queries decreases. We cast our setting as a stochastic game based on Bayesian decision theory, which allows us to balance latency, cost, and accuracy objectives in a principled way. Computing the optimal policy is intractable, so we develop an approximation based on Monte Carlo Tree Search. We tested our approach on three datasets-- named-entity recognition, sentiment classification, and image classification. On the NER task we obtained more than an order of magnitude reduction in cost compared to full human annotation, while boosting performance relative to the expert provided labels. We also achieve a 8% F1 improvement over having a single human label the whole set, and a 28% F1 improvement over online learning.
Color Constancy by Learning to Predict Chromaticity from Luminance,Color constancy is the recovery of true surface color from observed color, and requires estimating the chromaticity of scene illumination to correct for the bias it induces. In this paper, we show that the per-pixel color statistics of natural scenes---without any spatial or semantic context---can by themselves be a powerful cue for color constancy. Specifically, we describe an illuminant estimation method that is built around a "classifier" for identifying the true chromaticity of a pixel given its luminance (absolute brightness across color channels). During inference, each pixel's observed color restricts its true chromaticity to those values that can be explained by one of a candidate set of illuminants, and applying the classifier over these values yields a distribution over the corresponding illuminants. A global estimate for the scene illuminant is computed through a simple aggregation of these distributions across all pixels. We begin by simply defining the luminance-to-chromaticity classifier by computing empirical histograms over discretized chromaticity and luminance values from a training set of natural images. These histograms reflect a preference for hues corresponding to smooth reflectance functions, and for achromatic colors in brighter pixels. Despite its simplicity, the resulting estimation algorithm outperforms current state-of-the-art color constancy methods. Next, we propose a method to learn the luminance-to-chromaticity classifier "end-to-end". Using stochastic gradient descent, we set chromaticity-luminance likelihoods to minimize errors in the final scene illuminant estimates on a training set. This leads to further improvements in accuracy, most significantly in the tail of the error distribution.
Decoupled Deep Neural Network for Semi-supervised Semantic Segmentation,We propose a novel deep neural network architecture for semi-supervised semantic segmentation using heterogeneous annotations. Contrary to existing approaches posing semantic segmentation as region-based classification, our algorithm decouples classification and segmentation, and learns a separate network for each task. In this architecture, labels associated with an image are identified by classification network, and binary segmentation is subsequently performed for each identified label by segmentation network. The decoupled architecture enables us to learn classification and segmentation networks separately based on the training data with image-level and pixel-wise class labels, respectively. It facilitates to reduce search space for segmentation effectively by exploiting class-specific activation maps obtained from bridging layers. Our algorithm shows outstanding performance compared to other semi-supervised approaches even with much less training images with strong annotations in PASCAL VOC dataset. 
Action-Conditional Video Prediction using Deep Networks in Atari Games,Motivated by vision-based reinforcement learning (RL) problems, in particular Atari games from the recent benchmark Aracade Learning Environment (ALE), we consider spatio-temporal prediction problems where future (image-)frames are dependent on control variables or actions as well as previous frames. While not composed of natural scenes, frames in Atari games are high-dimensional in size, can involve tens of objects with one or more objects being controlled by the actions directly and many other objects being influenced indirectly, can involve entry and departure of objects, and can involve deep partial observability. We propose and evaluate two deep neural network architectures that consist of encoding, action-conditional transformation, and decoding layers based on convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks. Experimental results show that the proposed architectures are able to generate visually-realistic frames that are also useful for control over approximately 100-step action-conditional futures in some games. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to make and evaluate long-term predictions on high-dimensional video conditioned by control inputs.
Bayesian Active Model Selection with an Application to Automated Audiometry,We introduce a novel information-theoretic approach for active model selection and demonstrate its effectiveness in a real-world application. Although our method can work with arbitrary models, we focus on actively learning the appropriate structure for Gaussian process (GP) models with arbitrary observation likelihoods. We then apply this framework to rapid screening for noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL), a widespread and preventible disability, if diagnosed early. We construct a GP model for pure-tone audiometric responses of patients with NIHL. Using this and a previously published model for healthy responses, the proposed method is shown to be capable of diagnosing the presence or absence of NIHL with drastically fewer samples than existing approaches. Further, the method is extremely fast and enables the diagnosis to be performed in real time.
Efficient and Robust Automated Machine Learning,The success of machine learning in a broad range of applications has led to an ever-growing demand for machine learning systems that can be used off the shelf by non-experts. To be effective in practice, such systems need to automatically choose a good algorithm and feature preprocessing steps for a new dataset at hand, and also set their respective hyperparameters. Recent work has started to tackle this automated machine learning (AutoML) problem with the help of efficient Bayesian optimization methods. In this work we introduce a robust new AutoML system based on scikit-learn (using 15 classifiers, 14 feature preprocessing methods, and 4 data preprocessing methods, giving rise to a structured hypothesis space with 110 hyperparameters). This system, which we dub auto-sklearn, improves on existing AutoML methods by automatically taking into account past performance on similar datasets, and by constructing ensembles from the models evaluated during the optimization. Our system won the first phase of the ongoing ChaLearn AutoML challenge, and our comprehensive analysis on over 100 diverse datasets shows that it substantially outperforms the previous state of the art in AutoML. We also demonstrate the performance gains due to each of our contributions and derive insights into the effectiveness of the individual components of auto-sklearn.
A Framework for Individualizing Predictions of Disease Trajectories by Exploiting Multi-Resolution Structure,For many complex diseases, there is a wide variety of ways in which an individual can manifest the disease. The challenge of personalized medicine is to develop tools that can accurately predict the trajectory of an individual's disease, which can in turn enable clinicians to optimize treatments. We represent an individual's disease trajectory as a continuous-valued continuous-time function describing the severity of the disease over time. We propose a hierarchical latent variable model that individualizes predictions of disease trajectories. This model shares statistical strength across observations at different resolutions--the population, subpopulation and the individual level. We describe an algorithm for learning population and subpopulation parameters offline, and an online procedure for dynamically learning individual-specific parameters. Finally, we validate our model on the task of predicting the course of interstitial lung disease, a leading cause of death among patients with the autoimmune disease scleroderma. We compare our approach against state-of-the-art and demonstrate significant improvements in predictive accuracy.
Pointer Networks,We introduce a new neural architecture to learn the conditional probability of an output sequence with elements that arediscrete tokens corresponding to positions in an input sequence.Such problems cannot be trivially addressed by existent approaches such as sequence-to-sequence and Neural Turing Machines,because the number of target classes in eachstep of the output depends on the length of the input, which is variable.Problems such as sorting variable sized sequences, and various combinatorialoptimization problems belong to this class.  Our model solvesthe problem of variable size output dictionaries using a recently proposedmechanism of neural attention. It differs from the previous attentionattempts in that, instead of using attention to blend hidden units of anencoder to a context vector at each decoder step, it uses attention asa pointer to select a member of the input sequence as the output. We call this architecture a Pointer Net (Ptr-Net).We show Ptr-Nets can be used to learn approximate solutions to threechallenging geometric problems -- finding planar convex hulls, computingDelaunay triangulations, and the planar Travelling Salesman Problem-- using training examples alone. Ptr-Nets not only improve oversequence-to-sequence with input attention, butalso allow us to generalize to variable size output dictionaries.We show that the learnt models generalize beyond the maximum lengthsthey were trained on. We hope our results on these taskswill encourage a broader exploration of neural learning for discreteproblems.
A Reduced-Dimension fMRI Shared Response Model,Multi-subject fMRI data is critical for evaluating the generality and validity of findings across subjects, and its effective utilization helps improve analysis sensitivity. We develop a shared response model for aggregating multi-subject fMRI data that accounts for different functional topographies among anatomically aligned datasets. Our model demonstrates improved sensitivity in identifying a shared response for a variety of datasets and anatomical brain regions of interest. Furthermore, by removing the identified shared response, it allows improved detection of group differences. The ability to identify what is shared and what is not shared opens the model to a wide range of multi-subject fMRI studies.
Efficient Exact Gradient Update for training Deep Networks with Very Large Sparse Targets,An important class of problems involves training deep neural networks with sparse prediction targets of very high dimension D. These occur naturally in e.g. neural language models or the learning of word-embeddings, often posed as predicting the probability of next words among a vocabulary of size D (e.g. 200,000). Computing the equally large, but typically non-sparse D-dimensional output vector from a last hidden layer of reasonable dimension d (e.g. 500) incurs a prohibitive $O(Dd)$ computational cost for each example, as does updating the $D \times d$ output weight matrix and computing the gradient needed for backpropagation to previous layers. While efficient handling of large sparse network inputs is trivial, this case of large sparse targets is not, and has thus so far been sidestepped with approximate alternatives such as hierarchical softmax or sampling-based approximations during training. In this work we develop an original algorithmic approach that, for a family of loss functions that includes squared error and spherical softmax, can compute the exact loss, gradient update for the output weights, and gradient for backpropagation, all in $O(d^2)$  per example instead of $O(Dd)$, remarkably without ever computing the D-dimensional output. The proposed algorithm yields a speedup of $\frac{D}{4d}$, i.e. two orders of magnitude for typical sizes, for that critical part of the computations that often dominates the training time in this kind of network architecture.
Precision-Recall-Gain Curves: PR Analysis Done Right,Precision-Recall analysis abounds in applications of binary classification where true negatives do not add value and hence should not affect assessment of the classifier's performance. Perhaps inspired by the many advantages of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and the area under such curves for accuracy-based performance assessment, many researchers have taken to report Precision-Recall (PR) curves and associated areas as performance metric. We demonstrate in this paper that this practice is fraught with difficulties, mainly because of incoherent scale assumptions -- e.g., the area under a PR curve takes the arithmetic mean of precision values whereas the $F_{\beta}$ score applies the harmonic mean. We show how to fix this by plotting PR curves in a different coordinate system, and demonstrate that the new Precision-Recall-Gain curves inherit all key advantages of ROC curves. In particular, the area under Precision-Recall-Gain curves conveys an expected $F_1$ score on a harmonic scale, and the convex hull of a Precision-Recall-Gain curve allows us to calibrate the classifier's scores so as to determine, for each operating point on the convex hull, the interval of $\beta$ values for which the point optimises $F_{\beta}$. We demonstrate experimentally that the area under traditional PR curves can easily favour models with lower expected $F_1$ score than others, and so the use of Precision-Recall-Gain curves will result in better model selection. 
A Tractable Approximation to Optimal Point Process Filtering: Application to Neural Encoding,The process of dynamic state estimation (filtering) based on point process observations is in general intractable. Numerical sampling techniques are often practically useful, but lead to limited conceptual insight about optimal encoding/decoding strategies, which are of significant relevance to Computational Neuroscience. We develop an analytically tractable Bayesian approximation to optimal filtering based on point process observations, which allows us to introduce distributional assumptions about sensory cell properties, that greatly facilitates the analysis of optimal encoding in situations deviating from common assumptions of uniform coding. The analytic framework leads to insights which are difficult to obtain from numerical algorithms, and is consistent with experiments about the distribution of tuning curve centers. Interestingly, we find that the information gained from the absence of spikes may be crucial to performance.
Equilibrated adaptive learning rates for non-convex optimization,Parameter-specific adaptive learning rate methods are computationally efficient ways to reduce the ill-conditioning problems encountered when training large deep networks. Following recent work that strongly suggests that most of thecritical points encountered when training such networks are saddle points, we find how considering the presence of negative eigenvalues of the Hessian could help us design better suited adaptive learning rate schemes. We show that the popular Jacobi preconditioner has undesirable behavior in the presence of both positive and negative curvature, and present theoretical and empirical evidence that the so-called equilibration preconditioner is comparatively better suited to non-convex problems. We introduce a novel adaptive learning rate scheme, called ESGD, based on the equilibration preconditioner. Our experiments demonstrate that both schemes yield very similar step directions but that ESGD sometimes surpasses RMSProp in terms of convergence speed, always clearly improving over plain stochastic gradient descent.
NEXT: A System for Real-World Development, Evaluation, and Application of Active Learning,Active learning methods automatically adapt data collection by selecting the most informative samples in order to accelerate machine learning. Because of this, real-world testing and comparing active learning algorithms requires collecting new datasets (adaptively), rather than simply applying algorithms to benchmark datasets, as is the norm in (passive) machine learning research. To facilitate the development, testing and deployment of active learning for real applications, we have built an open-source software system for large-scale active learning research and experimentation.  The system, called NEXT,  provides a unique platform for real-world, reproducible active learning research. This paper details the challenges of building the system and demonstrates its capabilities with several experiments.  The results show how experimentation can help expose strengths and weaknesses of active learning algorithms, in sometimes unexpected and enlightening ways.
Gaussian Process Random Fields,Gaussian processes have been successful in both supervised and unsupervised machine learning tasks, but their computational complexity has constrained practical applications. We introduce a new approximation for large-scale Gaussian processes, the Gaussian Process Random Field (GPRF), in which local GPs are coupled via pairwise potentials. The GPRF likelihood is a simple, tractable, and parallelizeable approximation to the full GP marginal likelihood, enabling latent variable modeling and hyperparameter selection on large datasets. We demonstrate its effectiveness on synthetic spatial data as well as a real-world application to seismic event location.
MCMC for Variationally Sparse Gaussian Processes,Gaussian process (GP) models form a core part of probabilistic machine learning. Considerable research effort has been made into attacking three issues with GP models: how to compute efficiently when the number of data is large; how to approximate the posterior when the likelihood is not Gaussian and how to estimate covariance function parameter posteriors. This paper simultaneously addresses these, using a variational approximation to the posterior which is sparse in sup- port of the function but otherwise free-form. The result is a Hybrid Monte-Carlo sampling scheme which allows for a non-Gaussian approximation over the function values and covariance parameters simultaneously, with efficient computations based on inducing-point sparse GPs.
Streaming, Distributed Variational Inference for Bayesian Nonparametrics,This paper presents a methodology for creating streaming, distributed inference algorithms for Bayesian nonparametric (BNP) models. In the proposed framework, processing nodes receive a sequence of data minibatches, compute a variational posterior for each, and make asynchronous streaming updates to a central model. In contrast to previous algorithms, the proposed framework is truly streaming, distributed, asynchronous, learning-rate-free, and truncation-free. The key challenge in developing the framework, arising from fact that BNP models do not impose an inherent ordering on their components, is finding the correspondence between minibatch and central BNP posterior components before performing each update. To address this, the paper develops a combinatorial optimization problem over component correspondences, and provides an efficient solution technique. The paper concludes with an application of the methodology to the DP mixture model, with experimental results demonstrating its practical scalability and performance.
Fixed-Length Poisson MRF: Adding Dependencies to the Multinomial,We propose a novel distribution that generalizes the Multinomial distribution to enable dependencies between dimensions.  Our novel distribution is based on the parametric form of the Poisson MRF model [Yang et al., 2012] but is fundamentally different because of the domain restriction to a fixed-length vector like in a Multinomial where the number of trials is fixed or known.  Thus, we propose the Fixed-Length Poisson MRF (LPMRF) distribution.  We develop methods to estimate the likelihood and log partition function (i.e. the log normalizing constant), which was not possible with the Poisson MRF model.  In addition, we propose novel mixture and topic models that use LPMRF as a base distribution and discuss the similarities and differences with previous topic models such as the recently proposed Admixture of Poisson MRFs [Inouye et al., 2014].  We show the effectiveness of our LPMRF distribution over Multinomial models by evaluating the test set perplexity on a dataset of abstracts and Wikipedia. Qualitatively, we show that the positive dependencies discovered by LPMRF are interesting and intuitive.  Finally, we show that our algorithms are fast and have good scaling.
Human Memory Search as Initial-Visit Emitting Random Walk,Imagine a random walk that outputs a state only when visiting it for the first time. The observed output is therefore a repeat-censored version of the underlying walk, and consists of a permutation of the states or a prefix of it. We call this model initial-visit emitting random walk (INVITE). Prior work has shown that the random walks with such a repeat-censoring mechanism explain well human behavior in memory search tasks, which is of great interest in both the study of human cognition and various clinical applications. However, parameter estimation in INVITE is challenging, because naive likelihood computation by marginalizing over infinitely many hidden random walk trajectories is intractable. In this paper, we propose the first efficient maximum likelihood estimate (MLE) for INVITE by decomposing the censored output into a series of absorbing random walks. We also prove theoretical properties of the MLE including identifiability and consistency. We show that INVITE outperforms several existing methods on real-world human response data from memory search tasks.
Structured Transforms for Small-Footprint Deep Learning,We consider the task of building compact deep learning pipelines suitable for deploymenton storage and power constrained mobile devices. We propose a uni-fied framework to learn a broad family of structured parameter matrices that arecharacterized by the notion of low displacement rank. Our structured transformsadmit fast function and gradient evaluation, and span a rich range of parametersharing configurations whose statistical modeling capacity can be explicitly tunedalong a continuum from structured to unstructured. Experimental results showthat these transforms can significantly accelerate inference and forward/backwardpasses during training, and offer superior accuracy-compactness-speed tradeoffsin comparison to a number of existing techniques. In keyword spotting applicationsin mobile speech recognition, our methods are much more effective thanstandard linear low-rank bottleneck layers and nearly retain the performance ofstate of the art models, while providing more than 3.5-fold compression.
Spectral Learning of Large Structured HMMs for Comparative Epigenomics,We develop a latent variable model and an efficient spectral algorithm motivated by the recent emergence of very large data sets of chromatin marks from multiple human cell types. A natural model for chromatin data in one cell type is a Hidden Markov Model (HMM); we model the relationship between multiple cell types by connecting their hidden states by a fixed tree of known structure. The main challenge with learning parameters of such models is that iterative methods such as EM are very slow, while naive spectral methods result in time and space complexity exponential in the number of cell types. We exploit properties of the tree structure of the hidden states to provide spectral algorithms that are more computationally efficient for current biological datasets. We provide sample complexity bounds for our algorithm and evaluate it experimentally on biological data from nine human cell types. Finally, we show that beyond our specific model, some of our algorithmic ideas can be applied to other graphical models.
A Structural Smoothing Framework For Robust Graph Comparison,In this paper, we propose a general smoothing framework for graph kernels by  taking \textit{structural similarity} into account, and apply it to  derive smoothed variants of popular graph kernels. Our framework is inspired by state-of-the-art smoothing  techniques used in natural language processing (NLP). However, unlike  NLP applications which primarily deal with strings, we show how one  can apply smoothing to a richer class of inter-dependent  sub-structures that naturally arise in graphs. Moreover, we discuss  extensions of the Pitman-Yor process that can be adapted to smooth  structured objects thereby leading to novel graph kernels. Our  kernels are able to tackle the diagonal dominance problem, while  respecting the structural similarity between sub-structures,   especially under the presence of edge or label noise.  Experimental evaluation shows that not only our kernels outperform  the unsmoothed variants, but also achieve statistically significant  improvements in classification accuracy over several other graph  kernels that have been recently proposed in literature. Our kernels  are competitive in terms of runtime, and offer a viable option for  practitioners.
Optimization Monte Carlo: Efficient and Embarrassingly Parallel Likelihood-Free Inference,We describe an embarrassingly parallel, anytime Monte Carlo method for likelihood-free models.  The algorithm starts with the view that the stochasticity of the pseudo-samples generated by the simulator can be controlled externally by a vector of random numbers u, in such a way that the outcome, knowing u, is deterministic.  For each instantiation of u we run an optimization procedure to minimize the distance between summary statistics of the simulator and the data. After reweighing these samples using the prior and the Jacobian (accounting for the change of volume in transforming from the space of summary statistics to the space of parameters) we show that this weighted ensemble represents a Monte Carlo estimate of the posterior distribution. The procedure can be run embarrassingly parallel (each node handling one sample) and anytime (by allocating resources to the worst performing sample). The procedure is validated on six experiments. 
Inverse Reinforcement Learning with Locally Consistent Reward Functions,Existing inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithms have assumed each experts demonstrated trajectory to be produced by only a single reward function. This paper presents a novel generalization of the IRL problem that allows each trajectory to be generated by multiple locally consistent reward functions, hence catering to more realistic and complex experts behaviors. Solving our generalized IRL problem thus involves not only learning these reward functions but also the stochastic transitions between them at any state (including unvisited states). By representing our IRL problem with a probabilistic graphical model, an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm can be devised to iteratively learn the different reward functions and the stochastic transitions between them in order to jointly improve the likelihood of the experts demonstrated trajectories. As a result, the most likely partition of a trajectory into segments that are generated from different locally consistent reward functions selected by EM can be derived. Empirical evaluation on synthetic and real-world datasets shows that our IRL algorithm outperforms the state-of-the-art EM clustering with maximum likelihood IRL, which is, interestingly, a reduced variant of our approach.
Consistent Multilabel Classification,Multilabel classification is rapidly developing as an important aspect of modern predictive modeling, motivating study of its theoretical aspects. To this end, we propose a framework for constructing and analyzing multilabel classification metrics which reveals novel results on a parametric form for population optimal classifiers, and additional insight into the role of label correlations. In particular, we show that for multilabel metrics constructed as instance-, micro- and macro-averages, the population optimal classifier can be decomposed into binary classifiers based on the marginal instance-conditional distribution of each label, with a weak association between labels via the threshold. Thus, our analysis extends the state of the art from a few known multilabel classification metrics such as Hamming loss, to a general framework applicable to many of the classification metrics in common use. Based on the population-optimal classifier, we propose a computationally efficient and general-purpose plug-in classification algorithm, and prove its consistency with respect to the metric of interest. Empirical results on synthetic and benchmark datasets are supportive of our theoretical findings.
Is Approval Voting Optimal Given Approval Votes?,Some crowdsourcing platforms ask workers to express their opinions by approving a set of k good alternatives. It seems that the only reasonable way to aggregate these k-approval votes is the approval voting rule, which simply counts the number of times each alternative was approved. We challenge this assertion by proposing a probabilistic framework of noisy voting, and asking whether approval voting yields an alternative that is most likely to be the best alternative, given k-approval votes. While the answer is generally positive, our theoretical and empirical results call attention to situations where approval voting is suboptimal.
A Normative Theory of Adaptive Dimensionality Reduction in Neural Networks,To make sense of the world our brains must analyze high-dimensional datasets streamed by our sensory organs. Because such analysis begins with dimensionality reduction, modelling early sensory processing requires biologically plausible online dimensionality reduction algorithms. Recently, we derived such an algorithm, termed similarity matching, from a Multidimensional Scaling (MDS) objective function. However, in the existing algorithm, the number of output dimensions is set a priori by the number of output neurons and cannot be changed. Because the number of informative dimensions in sensory inputs is variable there is a need for adaptive dimensionality reduction. Here, we derive biologically plausible dimensionality reduction algorithms which adapt the number of output dimensions to the eigenspectrum of the input covariance matrix. We formulate three objective functions which, in the offline setting, are optimized by the projections of the input dataset onto its principal subspace scaled by the eigenvalues of the output covariance matrix. In turn, the output eigenvalues are computed as i) soft-thresholded, ii) hard-thresholded, iii) equalized thresholded eigenvalues of the input covariance matrix. In the online setting, we derive the three corresponding adaptive algorithms and map them onto the dynamics of neuronal activity in networks with biologically plausible local learning rules. Remarkably, in the last two networks, neurons are divided into two classes which we identify with principal neurons and interneurons in biological circuits.
Efficient Non-greedy Optimization of Decision Trees,Decision trees and randomized forests are widely used in computer vision and machine learning. Standard algorithms for decision tree induction optimize the split functions one node at a time according to some splitting criteria. This greedy procedure often leads to suboptimal trees. In this paper, we present an algorithm for optimizing the split functions at all levels of the tree jointly with the leaf parameters, based on a global objective. We show that the problem of finding optimal linear-combination (oblique) splits for decision trees is related to structured prediction with latent variables, and we formulate a convex-concave upper bound on the tree's empirical loss. Computing the gradient of the proposed surrogate objective with respect to each training exemplar is O(d^2), where d is the tree depth, and thus training deep trees is feasible. The use of stochastic gradient descent for optimization enables effective training with large datasets. Experiments on several classification benchmarks demonstrate that the resulting non-greedy decision trees outperform greedy decision tree baselines.
Statistical Topological Data Analysis - A Kernel Perspective,We consider the problem of statistical computations with persistence diagrams, a summary representation of topological features in data. These diagrams encode persistent homology, a widely used invariant in topological data analysis. While several avenues towards a statistical treatment of the diagrams have been explored recently, we follow an alternative route that is motivated by the success of methods based on the embedding of probability measures into reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces. In fact, a positive definite kernel on persistence diagrams has recently been proposed, connecting persistent homology to popular kernel-based learning techniques such as support vector machines. However, important properties of that kernel which would enable a principled use in the context of probability measure embeddings remain to be explored. Our contribution is to close this gap by proving universality of a variant of the original kernel, and to demonstrate its effective use in two-sample hypothesis testing on synthetic as well as real-world data.
Variational Consensus Monte Carlo,Practitioners of Bayesian statistics have long depended on Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) to obtain samples from intractable posterior distributions. Unfortunately, MCMC algorithms are typically serial, and do not scale to the large datasets typical of modern machine learning. The recently proposed consensus Monte Carlo algorithm removes this limitation by partitioning the data and drawing samples conditional on each partition in parallel (Scott et al, 2013). A fixed aggregation function then combines these samples, yielding approximate posterior samples. We introduce variational consensus Monte Carlo (VCMC), a variational Bayes algorithm that optimizes over aggregation functions to obtain samples from a distribution that better approximates the target. The resulting objective contains an intractable entropy term; we therefore derive a relaxation of the objective and show that the relaxed problem is blockwise concave under mild conditions. We illustrate the advantages of our algorithm on three inference tasks from the literature, demonstrating both the superior quality of the posterior approximation and the moderate overhead of the optimization step. Our algorithm achieves a relative error reduction (measured against serial MCMC) of up to 39% compared to consensus Monte Carlo on the task of estimating 300-dimensional probit regression parameter expectations; similarly, it achieves an error reduction of 92% on the task of estimating cluster comembership probabilities in a Gaussian mixture model with 8 components in 8 dimensions. Furthermore, these gains come at moderate cost compared to the runtime of serial MCMC, achieving near-ideal speedup in some instances.
Softstar: Heuristic-Guided Probabilistic Inference,Recent machine learning methods for sequential behavior prediction estimate the motives of behavior rather than the behavior itself. This higher-level abstraction improves generalization in different prediction settings, but computing predictions often becomes intractable in large decision spaces.  We propose the Softstar algorithm, a softened heuristic-guided search technique for the maximum entropy inverse optimal control model of sequential behavior.  This approach supports probabilistic search with bounded approximation error at a significantly reduced computational cost when compared to sampling based methods.  We present the algorithm, analyze approximation guarantees, and compare performance with simulation-based inference on two distinct complex decision tasks.
Gradient-free Hamiltonian Monte Carlo with Efficient Kernel Exponential Families,We propose Kernel Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (KMC), a gradient-free adaptive MCMC algorithm based on Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC). On target densities where classical HMC is not an option due to intractable gradients, KMC adaptively learns the target's gradient structure by fitting an exponential family model in a Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space. Computational costs are reduced by two novel efficient approximations to this gradient. While being asymptotically exact, KMC mimics HMC in terms of sampling efficiency, and offers substantial mixing improvements over state-of-the-art gradient free samplers. We support our claims with experimental studies on both toy and real-world applications, including Approximate Bayesian Computation and exact-approximate MCMC.
A Complete Recipe for Stochastic Gradient MCMC,Many recent Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) samplers leverage continuous dynamics to define a transition kernel that efficiently explores a target distribution. In tandem, a focus has been on devising scalable variants that subsample the data and use stochastic gradients in place of full-data gradients in the dynamic simulations. However, such stochastic gradient MCMC samplers have lagged behind their full-data counterparts in terms of the complexity of dynamics considered since proving convergence in the presence of the stochastic gradient noise is non-trivial.  Even with simple dynamics, significant physical intuition is often required to modify the dynamical system to account for the stochastic gradient noise.  In this paper, we provide a general recipe for constructing MCMC samplers--including stochastic gradient versions--based on continuous Markov processes specified via two matrices.  We constructively prove that the framework is complete. That is, any continuous Markov process that provides samples from the target distribution can be written in our framework.  We show how previous continuous-dynamic samplers can be trivially "reinvented" in our framework, avoiding the complicated sampler-specific proofs. We likewise use our recipe to straightforwardly propose a new state-adaptive sampler: stochastic gradient Riemann Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (SGRHMC).  Our experiments on simulated data and a streaming Wikipedia analysis demonstrate that the proposed SGRHMC sampler inherits the benefits of Riemann HMC, with the scalability of stochastic gradient methods.
Barrier Frank-Wolfe for Marginal Inference,We introduce a globally-convergent algorithm for optimizing the tree-reweighted (TRW) variational objective over the marginal polytope. The algorithm is based on the conditional gradient method (Frank-Wolfe) and moves pseudomarginals within the marginal polytope through repeated maximum a posteriori (MAP) calls. This modular structure enables us to leverage black-box MAP solvers (both exact and approximate) for variational inference, and obtains more accurate results than tree-reweighted algorithms that optimize over the local consistency relaxation. Theoretically, we bound the sub-optimality for the proposed algorithm despite the TRW objective having unbounded gradients at the boundary of the marginal polytope. Empirically, we demonstrate the increased quality of results found by tightening the relaxation over the marginal polytope as well as the spanning tree polytope on synthetic and real-world instances.
Practical and Optimal LSH for Angular Distance,We show the existence of a Locality-Sensitive Hashing (LSH) family for the angular distance that yields an approximate Near Neighbor Search algorithm with the asymptotically optimal  running time exponent. Unlike earlier algorithms with this property (e.g., Spherical LSH (Andoni-Indyk-Nguyen-Razenshteyn 2014) (Andoni-Razenshteyn 2015)), our algorithm is also practical, improving upon the well-studied hyperplane LSH (Charikar 2002) in practice. We also introduce a multiprobe version of this algorithm and conduct an experimental evaluation on real and synthetic data sets.We complement the above positive results with a fine-grained lower bound for the quality of any LSH family for angular distance. Our lower bound implies that the above LSH family exhibits a trade-off between evaluation time and quality that is close to optimal for a natural class of LSH functions.
Principal Differences Analysis: Interpretable Characterization of Differences between Distributions,We introduce principal differences analysis for analyzing differences between high-dimensional distributions. The method operates by finding the projection that maximizes the Wasserstein divergence between the resulting univariate populations. Relying on the Cramer-Wold device, it requires no assumptions about the form of the underlying distributions, nor the nature of their inter-class differences. A sparse variant of the method is introduced to identify features responsible for the differences. We provide algorithms for both the original minimax formulation as well as its semidefinite relaxation.  In addition to deriving some convergence results, we illustrate how the approach may be applied to identify differences between cell populations in the somatosensory cortex and hippocampus as manifested by single cell RNA-seq. Our broader framework extends beyond the specific choice of Wasserstein divergence.
Kullback-Leibler Proximal Variational Inference,We propose a new variational inference method based on the Kullback-Leibler (KL) proximal term. We make two contributions towards improving efficiency of variational inference. Firstly, we derive a KL proximal-point algorithm and show its equivalence to gradient descent with natural gradient in stochastic variational inference. Secondly, we use the proximal framework to derive efficient variational algorithms for non-conjugate models. We propose a splitting procedure to separate non-conjugate terms from conjugate ones. We then linearize the non-conjugate terms and show that the resulting subproblem admits a closed-form solution. Overall, our approach converts a non-conjugate model to subproblems that involve inference in well-known conjugate models. We apply our method to many models and derive generalizations for non-conjugate exponential family. Applications to real-world datasets show that our proposed algorithms are easy to implement, fast to converge, perform well, and reduce computations.
Learning Large-Scale Poisson DAG Models based on OverDispersion Scoring,In this paper, we address the question of identifiability and learning algorithms for large-scale Poisson Directed Acyclic Graphical (DAG) models. We define general Poisson DAG models as models where each node is a Poisson random variable with rate parameter depending on the values of the parents in the underlying DAG. First, we prove that Poisson DAG models are identifiable from observational data, and present a polynomial-time algorithm that learns the Poisson DAG model under suitable regularity conditions. The main idea behind our algorithm is based on overdispersion, in that variables that are conditionally Poisson are overdispersed relative to variables that are marginally Poisson. Our algorithms exploits overdispersion along with methods for learning sparse Poisson undirected graphical models for faster computation. We provide both theoretical guarantees and simulation results for both small and large-scale DAGs.
Streaming Min-max Hypergraph Partitioning,In many applications, the data is of rich structure that can be represented by a hypergraph, where the data items are represented by vertices and the associations among items are represented by hyperedges. Equivalently, we are given an input bipartite graph with two types of vertices: items, and associations (which we refer to as topics). We consider the problem of partitioning the set of items into a given number of parts such that the maximum number of topics covered by a part of the partition is minimized. This is a natural clustering problem, with various applications, e.g. partitioning of a set of  information objects such as documents, images, and videos, and load balancing in the context of computation platforms.In this paper, we focus on the streaming computation model for this problem, in which items arrive online one at a time and each item must be assigned irrevocably to a part of the partition at its arrival time. Motivated by scalability requirements, we focus on the class of streaming computation algorithms with memory limited to be at most linear in the number of the parts of the partition. We show that a greedy assignment strategy is able to recover a hidden co-clustering of items under a natural set of recovery conditions. We also report results of an extensive empirical evaluation, which demonstrate that this greedy strategy yields superior performance when compared with alternative approaches.   
Efficient Output Kernel Learning for Multiple Tasks,The paradigm of multi-task learning is that one can achieve better generalization by learning tasks jointly and thus exploiting the similarity between the tasks rather than learning them independently of each other. While previously the relationship between tasks had to be user-defined in the form of an output kernel, recent  approaches jointly learn the tasks and the output kernel. As the output kernel is a positive semidefinite matrix, the resulting optimization problems are not scalable in the  number of tasks as an eigendecomposition is required in each step. Using the theory of positive semidefinite kernels we show in this paper that for a certain class of regularizers on the output kernel, the constraint of being positive semidefinite can be dropped as it is automatically satisfied for the relaxed problem. This leads to an unconstrained dual problem which can be solved efficiently. Experiments on several multi-task and multi-class data sets illustrate the efficacy of our approach in terms of computational efficiency as well as generalization performance. 
Gradient Estimation Using Stochastic Computation Graphs,In a variety of problems originating in supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning, the loss function is defined by an expectation over a collection of random variables, which might be part of a probabilistic model or the external world. Estimating the gradient of this loss function, using samples, lies at the core of gradient-based learning algorithms for these problems. We introduce the formalism of stochastic computation graphs--directed acyclic graphs that include both deterministic functions and conditional probability distributions and describe how to easily and automatically derive an unbiased estimator of the loss function's gradient. The resulting algorithm for computing the gradient estimator is a simple modification of the standard backpropagation algorithm. The generic scheme we propose unifies estimators derived in variety of prior work, along with variance-reduction techniques therein. It could assist researchers in developing intricate models involving a combination of stochastic and deterministic operations, enabling, for example, attention, memory, and control actions.
Lifted Inference Rules With Constraints,Lifted inference rules exploit symmetries for fast reasoning in statistical rela-tional models. Computational complexity of these rules is highly dependent onthe choice of the constraint language they operate on and therefore coming upwith the right kind of representation is critical to the success of lifted inference.In this paper, we propose a new constraint language, called setineq, which allowssubset, equality and inequality constraints, to represent substitutions over the vari-ables in the theory. Our constraint formulation is strictly more expressive thanexisting representations, yet easy to operate on. We reformulate the three mainlifting rules: decomposer, generalized binomial and the recently proposed singleoccurrence for MAP inference, to work with our constraint representation. Exper-iments on benchmark MLNs for exact and sampling based inference demonstratethe effectiveness of our approach over several other existing techniques.
Sparse PCA via Bipartite Matchings,We consider the following multi-component sparse PCA problem:given a set of data points, we seek to extract a small number of sparse components with \emph{disjoint} supports that jointly capture the maximum possible variance.Such components can be computed one by one, repeatedly solving the single-component problem and deflating the input data matrix, but this greedy procedure is suboptimal.We present a novel algorithm for sparse PCA that jointly optimizes multiple disjoint components. The extracted features capture variance that lies within a multiplicative factor arbitrarily close to $1$ from the optimal.Our algorithm is combinatorial and computes the desired components by solving multiple instances of the bipartite maximum weight matching problem.Its complexity grows as a low order polynomial in the ambient dimension of the input data, but exponentially in its rank.However, it can be effectively applied on a low-dimensional sketch of the input data.We evaluate our algorithm on real datasets and empirically demonstrate that in many cases it outperforms existing, deflation-based approaches.
Empirical Localization of Homogeneous Divergences on Discrete Sample Spaces,In this paper, we propose a novel parameter estimator for probabilistic models on discrete space. The proposed estimator is derived from minimization of homogeneous divergence and can be constructed without calculation of the normalization constant, which is frequently infeasible for models in the discrete space. We investigate statistical properties of the proposed estimator such as consistency and asymptotic normality, and reveal a relationship with the alpha-divergence. Small experiments show that the proposed estimator attains comparable performance to the MLE with drastically lower computational cost.
Weighted Theta Functions and Embeddings with Applications to Max-Cut, Clustering and Summarization,We introduce a unifying generalization of the Lovsz theta function, and the associated geometric embedding, for graphs with weights on both nodes and edges. We show how it can be computed exactly by semidefinite programming, and how to approximate it using SVM computations. We show how the theta function can be interpreted as a measure of diversity in graphs and use this idea, and the graph embedding in algorithms for Max-Cut, correlation clustering and document summarization, all of which are well represented as problems on weighted graphs.
Online Rank Elicitation for Plackett-Luce: A Dueling Bandits Approach,We study the problem of online rank elicitation, assuming that rankings of a set of alternatives obey the Plackett-Luce distribution. Following the setting of the dueling bandits problem, the learner is allowed to query pairwise comparisons between alternatives, i.e., to sample pairwise marginals of the distribution in an online fashion. Using this information, the learner seeks to reliably predict the most probable ranking (or top-alternative). Our approach is based on constructing a surrogate probability distribution over rankings based on a sorting procedure, for which the pairwise marginals provably coincide with the marginals of the Plackett-Luce distribution. In addition to a formal performance and complexity analysis, we present first experimental studies.
Segregated Graphs and Marginals of Chain Graph Models,Bayesian networks are a popular representation of asymmetric (for example causal) relationships between random variables. Markov random fields (MRFs) are a complementary model of symmetric relationships used in computer vision, spatial modeling, and social and gene expression networks.  A chain graph model under the Lauritzen-Wermuth-Frydenberg interpretation (hereafter a chain graph model) generalizes both Bayesian networks and MRFs, and can represent asymmetric and symmetric relationships together.As in other graphical models, the set of marginals from distributions in a chain graph model induced by the presence of hidden variables forms a complex model.  One recent approach to the study of marginal graphical models is to consider a well-behaved supermodel.  Such a supermodel of marginals of Bayesian networks, defined only by conditional independences, and termed the ordinary Markov model, was studied at length in (Evans and Richardson, 2014).In this paper, we show that special mixed graphs which we call segregated graphs can be associated, via a Markov property, with supermodels of a marginal of chain graphs defined only by conditional independences.  Special features of segregated graphs imply the existence of a very natural factorization for these supermodels, and imply many existing results on the chain graph model, and ordinary Markov model carry over.  Our results suggest that segregated graphs define an analogue of the ordinary Markov model for marginals of chain graph models.
Approximating Sparse PCA from Incomplete Data,We study how well one can recover sparse principal componentsof a data matrix using a sketch formed from a few of its elements. We show that for a wide class of optimization problems,if the sketch is close (in the spectral norm) to the original datamatrix, then one can recover a near optimal solution to the optimizationproblem by using the sketch. In particular, we use this approach toobtain sparse principal components and show that for \math{m} data pointsin \math{n} dimensions,\math{O(\epsilon^{-2}\tilde k\max{m,n})} elements gives an\math{\epsilon}-additive approximation to the sparse PCA problem(\math{\tilde k} is the stable rank of the data matrix).We demonstrate our algorithms extensivelyon image, text, biological and financial data.The results show that not only are we able to recover the sparse PCAs from the incomplete data, but by using our sparse sketch, the running timedrops by a factor of five or more.
Multi-Layer Feature Reduction for Tree Structured Group Lasso via Hierarchical Projection,Tree structured group Lasso (TGL) is a powerful technique in uncovering the tree structured sparsity over the features, where each node encodes a group of features. It has been applied successfully in many real-world applications. However, with extremely large feature dimensions, solving TGL remains a significant challenge due to its highly complicated regularizer. In this paper, we propose a novel Multi-Layer Feature reduction method (MLFre) to quickly identify the inactive nodes (the groups of features with zero coefficients in the solution) hierarchically in a top-down fashion, which are guaranteed to be irrelevant to the response. Thus, we can remove the detected nodes from the optimization without sacrificing accuracy. The major challenge in developing such testing rules is due to the overlaps between the parents and their children nodes. By a novel hierarchical projection algorithm, MLFre is able to test the nodes independently from any of their ancestor nodes. Moreover, we can integrate MLFre---that has a low computational cost---with any existing solvers. Experiments on both synthetic and real data sets demonstrate that the speedup gained by MLFre can be orders of magnitude.
Recovering Communities in the General Stochastic Block Model Without Knowing the Parameters,The stochastic block model (SBM) has recently gathered significant attention due to new threshold phenomena. However, most developments rely on the knowledge of the model parameters, or at least on the number of communities. This paper introduces efficient algorithms that do not require such knowledge and yet achieve the optimal information-theoretic tradeoffs identified in Abbe-Sandon '15. In the constant degree regime, an algorithm is developed that requires only a lower-bound on the relative sizes of the communities and achieves the optimal accuracy scaling for large degrees. This lower-bound requirement is removed for the regime of diverging degrees. For the logarithmic degree regime, this is further enhanced into a fully agnostic algorithm that simultaneously learns the model parameters, achieves the optimal CH-limit for exact recovery, and runs in quasi-linear time. These provide the first algorithms affording efficiency, universality and information-theoretic optimality for strong and weak consistency in the SBM.
Maximum Likelihood Learning With Arbitrary Treewidth via Fast-Mixing Parameter Sets,Inference is typically intractable in high-treewidth undirected graphical models, making maximum likelihood learning a challenge. One way to overcome this is to restrict parameters to a tractable set, most typically the set of tree-structured parameters. This paper explores an alternative notion of a tractable set, namely a set of fast-mixing parameters where Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) inference can be guaranteed to quickly converge to the stationary distribution. While it is common in practice to approximate the likelihood gradient using samples obtained from MCMC, such procedures lack theoretical guarantees. This paper proves that for any exponential family with bounded sufficient statistics, (not just graphical models) when parameters are constrained to a fast-mixing set, gradient descent with gradients approximated by sampling will approximate the maximum likelihood solution inside the set with high-probability. When unregularized, to find a solution epsilon-accurate in log-likelihood requires a total amount of effort cubic in 1/epsilon, disregarding logarithmic factors. When ridge-regularized, strong convexity allows a solution epsilon-accurate in parameter distance with an effort quadratic in 1/epsilon. Both of these provide of a fully-polynomial time randomized approximation scheme.
Testing Closeness With Unequal Sized Samples,We consider the problem of testing whether two unequal-sized samples were drawn from identical distributions, versus distributions that differ significantly.  Specifically, given a target error parameter $\eps > 0$,  $m_1$ independent draws from an unknown distribution $p$ with discrete support, and $m_2$ draws from an unknown distribution $q$ of discrete support, we describe a test for distinguishing the case that $p=q$ from the case that $||p-q||_1 \geq \eps$. If $p$ and $q$ are supported on at most $n$ elements, then our test is successful with high probability provided $m_1\geq n^{2/3}/\varepsilon^{4/3}$ and $m_2 = \Omega\left(\max\{\frac{n}{\sqrt m_1\varepsilon^2}, \frac{\sqrt n}{\varepsilon^2}\}\right).$ We show that this tradeoff is information theoretically optimal throughout this range, in the dependencies on all parameters, $n,m_1,$ and $\eps$, to constant factors. As a consequence, we obtain an algorithm for estimating the mixing time of a Markov chain on $n$ states up to a $\log n$ factor that uses $\tilde{O}(n^{3/2} \tau_{mix})$ queries to a ``next node'' oracle. The core of our testing algorithm is a relatively simple statistic that seems to perform well in practice, both on synthetic data and on natural language data.  We believe that this statistic might prove to be a useful primitive within larger machine learning and natural language processing systems.
Learning Causal Graphs with Small Interventions,We consider the problem of learning causal networks with interventions, when each intervention is limited in size under Pearl's Structural Equation Model with independent errors (SEM-IE). The objective is to minimize the number of experiments to discover the causal directions of all the edges in a causal graph. Previous work has focused on the use of separating systems for complete graphs for this task. We prove that any deterministic adaptive algorithm needs to be a separating system in order to learn complete graphs in the worst case. In addition, we present a novel separating system construction, whose size is close to optimal and is arguably simpler than previous work in combinatorics. We also develop a novel information theoretic lower bound on the number of interventions that applies in full generality, including for randomized adaptive learning algorithms. For general chordal graphs, we derive worst case lower bounds on the number of interventions. Building on observations about induced trees, we give a new deterministic adaptive algorithm to learn directions on any chordal skeleton completely. In the worst case, our achievable scheme is an $\alpha$-approximation algorithm where $\alpha$ is the independence number of the graph.  We also show that there exist graph classes for which the sufficient number of experiments is close to the lower bound. In the other extreme, there are graph classes for which the required number of experiments is multiplicatively $\alpha$ away from our lower bound. In simulations, our algorithm almost always performs very close to the lower bound, while the approach based on separating systems for complete graphs is significantly worse for random chordal graphs.
Regret-Based Pruning in Extensive-Form Games,Counterfactual Regret Minimization (CFR) is a leading algorithm for finding a Nash equilibrium in large zero-sum imperfect-information games. CFR is an iterative algorithm that repeatedly traverses the game tree, updating regrets at each information set.We introduce an improvement to CFR that prunes any path of play in the tree, and its descendants, that has negative regret. It revisits that sequence at the earliest subsequent CFR iteration where the regret could have become positive, had that path been explored on every iteration. The new algorithm maintains CFR's convergence guarantees while making iterations significantly faster---even if previously known pruning techniques are used in the comparison. This improvement carries over to CFR+, a recent variant of CFR. Experiments show an order of magnitude speed improvement, and the relative speed improvement increases with the size of the game.
Nonparametric von Mises Estimators for Entropies, Divergences and Mutual Informations,We propose and analyse estimators for statistical functionals of one or moredistributions under nonparametric assumptions.Our estimators are derived from the von Mises expansion andare based on the theory of influence functions, which appearin the semiparametric statistics literature.We show that estimators based either on data-splitting or a leave-one-out techniqueenjoy fast rates of convergence and other favorable theoretical properties.We apply this framework to derive estimators for several popular informationtheoretic quantities, and via empirical evaluation, show the advantage of thisapproach over existing estimators.
Bounding errors of Expectation-Propagation,Expectation Propagation is a very popular algorithm for variational inference, but comes with few theoretical guarantees. In this article, we prove that the approximation errors made by EP can be bounded. Our bounds have an asymptotic interpretation in the number n of datapoints, which allows us to study EP's convergence with respect to the true posterior. In particular, we show that EP converges at a rate of $O(n^{-2})$ for the mean, up to an order of magnitude faster than the traditional Gaussian approximation at the mode. We also give similar asymptotic expansions for moments of order 2 to 4, as well as excess Kullback-Leibler cost (defined as the additional KL cost incurred by using EP rather than the ideal Gaussian approximation). All these expansions highlight the superior convergence properties of EP. Our approach for deriving those results is likely applicable to many similar approximate inference methods. In addition, we introduce bounds on the moments of log-concave distributions that may be of independent interest. 
Market Scoring Rules Act As Opinion Pools For Risk-Averse Agents,A market scoring rule (MSR)  a popular tool for designing algorithmic prediction markets  is an incentive-compatible mechanism for the aggregation of probabilistic beliefs from myopic risk-neutral agents. In this paper, we add to a growing body of research aimed at understanding the precise manner in which the price process induced by a MSR incorporates private information from agents who deviate from the assumption of risk-neutrality. We first establish that, for a myopic trading agent with a risk-averse utility function, a MSR satisfying mild regularity conditions elicits the agents risk-neutral probability conditional on the latest market state rather than her true subjective probability. Hence, we show that a MSR under these conditions effectively behaves like a more traditional method of belief aggregation, namely an opinion pool, for agents true probabilities. In particular, the logarithmic market scoring rule acts as a logarithmic pool for constant absolute risk aversion utility agents, and as a linear pool for an atypical budget-constrained agent utility with decreasing absolute risk aversion. We also point out the interpretation of a market maker under these conditions as a Bayesian learner even when agent beliefs are static.
Local Smoothness in Variance Reduced Optimization,Abstract We propose a family of non-uniform sampling strategies to provably speed up a class of stochastic optimization algorithms with linear convergence including Stochastic Variance Reduced Gradient (SVRG) and Stochastic Dual Coordinate Ascent (SDCA). For a large family of penalized empirical risk minimization problems, our methods exploit data dependent local smoothness of the loss functions near the optimum, while maintaining convergence guarantees. Our bounds are the first to quantify the advantage gained from local smoothness which are significant for some problems significantly better. Empirically, we provide thorough numerical results to back up our theory. Additionally we present algorithms exploiting local smoothness in more aggressive ways, which perform even better in practice.
High Dimensional EM Algorithm: Statistical Optimization and Asymptotic Normality,We provide a general theory of the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm for inferring high dimensional latent variable models.   In particular, we make two contributions: (i) For parameter estimation, we propose a novel high dimensional EM algorithm which naturally incorporates sparsity structure into parameter estimation.  With an appropriate initialization, this algorithm converges at a geometric rate and attains an estimator with the (near-)optimal statistical rate of convergence.  (ii) Based on the obtained estimator, we propose a new inferential procedure for testing hypotheses for low dimensional components of high dimensional parameters.  For a broad family of statistical models,  our framework establishes the first computationally feasible approach for optimal estimation and asymptotic inference in high dimensions.  
Associative Memory via a Sparse Recovery Model,An associative memory is a structure learned from a dataset $\mathcal{M}$ of vectors (signals) in a way such that, given a noisy version of one of the vectors as input, the nearest valid  vector from $\mathcal{M}$ (nearest neighbor) is provided as output, preferably via a fast iterative algorithm. Traditionally, binary (or $q$-ary) Hopfield neural networks are used to  model the above structure. In this paper, for the first time, we propose a model of associative memory based on sparse recovery of signals. Our basic premise is simple. For a dataset, we learn a set of linear constraints that every vector in the  dataset must satisfy. Provided these linear constraints possess  some special properties, it is possible to cast the task of finding nearest neighbor as a sparse recovery problem. Assuming  generic random models for the dataset, we show that it is possible to store super-polynomial or exponential number of $n$-length vectors in a neural network of size $O(n)$. Furthermore, given a noisy version of one of the  stored vectors corrupted in near-linear number of coordinates, the vector can be correctly recalled using a neurally feasible algorithm.
Matrix Completion Under Monotonic Single Index Models,Most recent results in matrix completion assume that the matrix under consideration is low-rank or that the columns are in a union of low-rank subspaces. In real-world settings, however, the linear structure underlying these models is distorted by a (typically unknown) nonlinear transformation. This paper addresses the challenge of matrix completion in the face of such nonlinearities. Given a few observations of a matrix that are obtained by applying a Lipschitz, monotonic function to a low rank matrix, our task is to estimate the remaining unobserved entries. We propose a novel matrix completion method that alternates between low-rank matrix estimation and monotonic function estimation to estimate the missing matrix elements. Mean squared error bounds provide insight into how well the matrix can be estimated based on the size,  rank of the matrix and properties of the nonlinear transformation. Empirical results on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate the competitiveness of the proposed approach.
Sparse Linear Programming via Primal and Dual Augmented Coordinate Descent,Over the past decades, Linear Programming (LP) has been widely used in different areas and considered as one of the mature technologies in numerical optimization. However, the complexity offered by state-of-the-art algorithms (i.e. interior-point method and primal, dual simplex methods) is still unsatisfactory for problems in machine learning with huge number of variables and constraints. In this paper, we investigate a general LP algorithm based on the combination of Augmented Lagrangian and Coordinate Descent (AL-CD), giving an iteration complexity of $O((\log(1/\epsilon))^2)$ with $O(nnz(A))$ cost per iteration, where $nnz(A)$ is the number of non-zeros in the $m\times n$ constraint matrix $A$, and in practice, one can further reduce cost per iteration to the order of non-zeros in columns (rows) corresponding to the active primal (dual) variables through an active-set strategy. The algorithm thus yields a tractable alternative to standard LP methods for large-scale problems of sparse solutions and $nnz(A)\ll mn$. We conduct experiments on large-scale LP instances from $\ell_1$-regularized multi-class SVM, Sparse Inverse Covariance Estimation, and Nonnegative Matrix Factorization, where the proposed approach finds solutions of $10^{-3}$ precision orders of magnitude faster than state-of-the-art implementations of interior-point and simplex methods.
Convergence rates of sub-sampled Newton methods,We consider the problem of minimizing a sum of $n$ functions via projected iterations onto a convex parameter set $\C \subset \reals^p$, where $n\gg p\gg 1$. In this regime, algorithms which utilize sub-sampling techniques are known to be effective.In this paper, we use sub-sampling techniques together with low-rank approximation to design a new randomized batch algorithm which possesses comparable convergence rate to Newton's method, yet has much smaller per-iteration cost. The proposed algorithm is robust in terms of starting point and step size, and enjoys a composite convergence rate, namely, quadratic convergence at start and linear convergence when the iterate is close to the minimizer. We develop its theoretical analysis which also allows us to select near-optimal algorithm parameters. Our theoretical results can be used to obtain convergence rates of previously proposed sub-sampling based algorithms as well. We demonstrate how our results apply to well-known machine learning problems.Lastly, we evaluate the performance of our algorithm on several datasets under various scenarios. 
Variance Reduced Stochastic Gradient Descent with Neighbors,Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) is a workhorse in machine learning, yet it is also known to be slow relative to steepest descent.  Recently, variance reduction techniques such as SVRG and SAGA have been proposed to overcome this weakness. With asymptotically vanishing variance, a constant step size can be maintained, resulting in geometric convergence rates. However, these methods are either based on occasional computations of full gradients at pivot points (SVRG), or on keeping per data point corrections in memory (SAGA). This has the disadvantage that one cannot employ these methods in a streaming setting and that speed-ups relative to SGD may need a certain number of epochs in order to materialize. This paper investigates a new class of algorithms that can exploit neighborhood structure in the training data to share and re-use information about past stochastic gradients across data points. While not meant to be offering advantages in an asymptotic setting, there are significant benefits in the transient optimization phase, in particular in a streaming or single-epoch setting. We investigate this family of algorithms in a thorough analysis and show supporting experimental results. As a side-product we provide a simple and unified proof technique for a broad class of variance reduction algorithms.
Non-convex Statistical Optimization for Sparse Tensor Graphical Model,We consider the estimation of sparse graphical models that characterize the dependency structure of high-dimensional tensor-valued data. To facilitate the estimation of the precision matrix corresponding to each way of the tensor, we assume the data follow a tensor normal distribution whose covariance has a Kronecker product structure. The penalized maximum likelihood estimation of this model involves minimizing a non-convex objective function. In spite of the non-convexity of this estimation problem, we prove that an alternating minimization algorithm, which iteratively estimates each sparse precision matrix while fixing the others, attains an estimator with the optimal statistical rate of convergence as well as consistent graph recovery. Notably, such an estimator achieves estimation consistency with only one tensor sample, which is unobserved in previous work. Our theoretical results are backed by thorough numerical studies.
Convergence Rates of Active Learning for Maximum Likelihood Estimation,An active learner is given a class of models, a large set of unlabeled examples, and the ability to interactively query labels of a subset of these examples; the goal of the learner is to learn a model in the class that fits the data well. Previous theoretical work has rigorously characterized label complexity of active learning, but most of this work has focused on the PAC or the agnostic PAC model. In this paper, we shift our attention to a more general setting -- maximum likelihood estimation. Provided certain conditions hold on the model class, we provide a two-stage active learning algorithm for this problem. The conditions we require are fairly general, and cover the widely popular class of Generalized Linear Models, which in turn, include models for binary and multi-class classification, regression, and conditional random fields. We provide an upper bound on the label requirement of our algorithm, and a lower bound that matches it up to lower order terms. Our analysis shows that unlike binary classification in the realizable case, just a single extraround of interaction is sufficient to achieve near-optimal performance in maximum likelihood estimation.  On the empirical side, the recent work in (Gu et al. 2012) and (Gu et al. 2014) (on active linear and logistic regression) shows the promise of this approach.
When are Kalman-Filter Restless Bandits Indexable?,We study the restless bandit associated with an extremely simple scalar Kalman filter model in discrete time. Under certain assumptions, we prove that the problem is {\it indexable} in the sense that the {\it Whittle index} is a non-decreasing function of the relevant belief state. In spite of the long history of this problem, this appears to be the first such proof. We use results about {\it Schur-convexity} and {\it mechanical words}, which are particularbinary strings intimately related to {\it palindromes}.
Policy Gradient for Coherent Risk Measures,Several authors have recently developed risk-sensitive policy gradient methods that augment the standard expected cost minimization problem with a measure of variability in cost. These studies have focused on specific risk-measures, such as the variance or conditional value at risk (CVaR). In this work, we extend the policy gradient method to the whole class of coherent risk measures, which is widely accepted in finance and operations research, among other fields. We consider both static and time-consistent dynamic risk measures. For static risk measures, our approach is in the spirit of policy gradient algorithms and combines a standard sampling approach with convex programming. For dynamic risk measures, our approach is actor-critic style and involves explicit approximation of value function. Most importantly, our contribution presents a unified approach to risk-sensitive reinforcement learning that generalizes and extends previous results.
A Dual Augmented Block Minimization Framework for Learning with Limited Memory,In past few years, several techniques have been proposed for training of linear Support Vector Machine (SVM) in limited-memory setting, where a dual block-coordinate descent (dual-BCD) method was used to balance cost spent on I/O and computation. In this paper, we consider the more general setting of regularized \emph{Empirical Risk Minimization (ERM)} when data cannot fit into memory. In particular, we generalize the existing block minimization framework based on strong duality and \emph{Augmented Lagrangian} technique to achieve global convergence for ERM with arbitrary convex loss function and regularizer. The block minimization framework is flexible in the sense that, given a solver working under sufficient memory, one can integrate it with the framework to obtain a solver globally convergent under limited-memory condition. We conduct experiments on L1-regularized classification and regression problems to corroborate our convergence theory and compare the proposed framework to  algorithms adopted from online and distributed settings, which shows superiority of the proposed approach on data of size ten times larger than the memory capacity.
Quartz: Randomized Dual Coordinate Ascent with Arbitrary Sampling,We study the problem of minimizing the average of a large number of smooth convex functions penalized with a strongly convex regularizer. We propose and analyze a novel primal-dual method (Quartz) which at every iteration samples and updates a random subset of the dual variables, chosen according to an arbitrary distribution. In contrast to typical analysis, we directly bound the decrease of the primal-dual error (in expectation), without the need to first analyze the dual error. Depending on the choice of the sampling, we obtain efficient serial and mini-batch variants of the method. In the serial case, our bounds match the best known bounds for SDCA (both with uniform and importance sampling). With standard mini-batching, our bounds predict initial data-independent speedup as well as additional data-driven speedup which depends on spectral and sparsity properties of the data.
A Generalization of Submodular Cover via the Diminishing Return Property on the Integer Lattice,We consider a generalization of the submodular cover problem based on the concept of diminishing return property on the integer lattice. We are motivated by real scenarios in machine learning that cannot be captured by (traditional) submodular set functions.  We show that the generalized submodular cover problem can be applied to various problems and devise a bicriteria approximation algorithm.  Our algorithm is guaranteed to output a log-factor approximate solution that satisfies the constraints with the desired accuracy. The running time of our algorithm is roughly $O(n\log (nr) \log{r})$, where $n$ is the size of the ground set and $r$ is the maximum value of a coordinate.  The dependency on $r$ is exponentially better than the naive reduction algorithms. Several experiments on real and artificial datasets demonstrate that the solution quality of our algorithm is comparable to naive algorithms, while the running time is several orders of magnitude faster.
A Universal Catalyst for First-Order Optimization,We introduce a generic scheme for accelerating first-order optimization methods in the sense of Nesterov, which builds upon a new analysis of the accelerated proximal point algorithm. Our approach consists of minimizing a convex objective by approximately solving a sequence of well-chosen auxiliary problems, leading to faster convergence. This strategy applies to a large class of algorithms, including gradient descent, block coordinate descent, SAG, SAGA, SDCA, SVRG, Finito/MISO, and their proximal variants.  For all of these methods, we provide acceleration and explicit support for non-strongly convex objectives. In addition to theoretical speed-up, we also show that acceleration is useful in practice, especially for ill-conditioned problems where we measure significant improvements.
Fast and Memory Optimal Low-Rank Matrix Approximation,In this paper, we revisit the problem of constructing a near-optimal rank $k$ approximation of a matrix $M\in [0,1]^{m\times n}$ under the streaming data model where the columns of $M$ are revealed sequentially. We present SLA (Streaming Low-rank Approximation), an algorithm that is asymptotically accurate, when $k s_{k+1} (M) = o(\sqrt{mn})$ where $s_{k+1}(M)$ is the $(k+1)$-th largest singular value of $M$. This means that its average mean-square error converges to 0 as $m$ and $n$ grow large (i.e., $\|\hat{M}^{(k)}-M^{(k)} \|_F^2 = o(mn)$ with high probability, where $\hat{M}^{(k)}$ and $M^{(k)}$ denote the output of SLA and the optimal rank $k$ approximation of $M$, respectively). Our algorithm makes one pass on the data if the columns of $M$ are revealed in a random order, and two passes if the columns of $M$ arrive in an arbitrary order. To reduce its memory footprint and complexity, SLA uses random sparsification, and samples each entry of $M$ with a small probability $\delta$. In turn, SLA is memory optimal as its required memory space scales as $k(m+n)$, the dimension of its output. Furthermore, SLA is computationally efficient as it runs in $O(\delta  kmn)$ time (a constant number of operations is made for each observed entry of $M$), which can be as small as $O(k\log(m)^4 n)$ for an appropriate choice of $\delta$ and if $n\ge m$.  
Stochastic Online Greedy Learning with Semi-bandit Feedbacks,The greedy algorithm is extensively studied in the field of combinatorial optimization for decades. In this paper, we address the online learning problem when the input to the greedy algorithm is stochastic with unknown parameters that have to be learned over time. We first propose the greedy regret and $\epsilon$-quasi greedy regret as learning metrics comparing with the performance of offline greedy algorithm. We then propose two online greedy learning algorithms with semi-bandit feedbacks, which use multi-armed bandit and pure exploration bandit policies at each level of greedy learning, one for each of the regret metrics respectively. Both algorithms achieve $O(\log T)$ problem-dependent regret bound ($T$ being the time horizon) for a general class of combinatorial structures and reward functions that allow greedy solutions. We further show that the bound is tight in $T$ and other problem instance parameters.
Linear Multi-Resource Allocation with Semi-Bandit Feedback,We study an idealised sequential resource allocation problem. In each time step the learner chooses an allocation of several resource types between a number of tasks. Assigning more resources to a task increases the probability that it is completed. The problem is challenging because the alignment of the tasks to the resource types is unknown and the feedback is noisy. Our main contribution is the new setting and an algorithm with nearly-optimal regret analysis. Along the way we draw connections to the problem of minimising regret for stochastic linear bandits with heteroscedastic noise. We also present some new results for stochastic linear bandits on the hypercube that significantly out-performs existing work, especially in the sparse case.
Exactness of Approximate MAP Inference in Continuous MRFs,Computing the MAP assignment in graphical models is generally intractable.  As a result, for discrete graphical models, the MAP problem is often approximated using linear programming relaxations.  Much research has focused on characterizing when these LP relaxations are tight, and while they are relatively well-understood in the discrete case, only a few results are known for their continuous analog.  In this work, we use graph covers to provide necessary and sufficient conditions for continuous MAP relaxations to be tight.  We use this characterization to give simple proofs that the relaxation is tight for log-concave decomposable and log-supermodular decomposable models.  We conclude by exploring the relationship between these two seemingly distinct classes of functions and providing specific conditions under which the MAP relaxation can and cannot be tight.
On the consistency theory of high dimensional variable screening,Variable screening is a fast dimension reduction technique for assisting high dimensional feature selection. As a preselection method, it selects a moderate size subset of candidate variables for further refining via feature selection to produce the final model. The performance of variable screening depends on both computational efficiency and the ability to dramatically reduce the number of variables without discarding the important ones. When the data dimension $p$ is substantially larger than the sample size $n$, variable screening becomes crucial as 1) Faster feature selection algorithms are needed; 2) Conditions guaranteeing selection consistency might fail to hold.This article studies a class of linear screening methods and establishes consistency theory for this special class. In particular, we prove the restricted diagonally dominant (RDD) condition is a necessary and sufficient condition for strong screening consistency. As concrete examples, we show two screening methods $SIS$ and $HOLP$ are both strong screening consistent (subject to additional constraints) with large probability if $n > O((\rho s + \sigma/\tau)^2\log p)$ under random designs. In addition, we relate the RDD condition to the irrepresentable condition, and highlight limitations of $SIS$. 
Finite-Time Analysis of Projected Langevin Monte Carlo,We analyze the projected Langevin Monte Carlo (LMC) algorithm, a close cousin of projected Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD). We show that LMC allows to sample in polynomial time from a posterior distribution restricted to a convex body and with concave log-likelihood. This gives the first Markov chain to sample from a log-concave distribution with a first-order oracle, as the existing chains with provable guarantees (lattice walk, ball walk and hit-and-run) require a zeroth-order oracle. Our proof uses elementary concepts from stochastic calculus which could be useful more generally to understand SGD and its variants.
Optimal Testing for Properties of Distributions,Given samples from an unknown  distribution, p, is it possible to distinguish whether p belongs to some class of distributions C versus p being far from every distribution in C? This fundamental question has receivedtremendous attention in Statistics, albeit focusing onasymptotic analysis, as well as in Computer Science, wherethe emphasis has been on small sample size and computationalcomplexity. Nevertheless, even for basic classes ofdistributions such as monotone, log-concave, unimodal, and monotone hazard rate, the optimal sample complexity is unknown.We provide a general approach via which we obtain sample-optimal and computationally efficient testers for all these distribution families. At the core of our approach is an algorithm which solves the following problem:Given samplesfrom an unknown distribution p, and a known distribution q, are p and q close in Chi^2-distance, or far in total variation distance?The optimality of all testers is established by providing matching lower bounds. Finally, a necessary building block for our tester and important byproduct of our work are the first known computationally efficient proper learners for discretelog-concave and monotone hazard rate distributions. We exhibit the efficacy of our testers via experimental analysis.
Learning Theory and Algorithms for Forecasting Non-stationary Time Series,We present data-dependent learning bounds for the general scenario of non-stationary non-mixing stochastic processes. Our learning guarantees are expressed in terms of a data-dependent measure of sequential complexity and a discrepancy measure that can be estimated from data under some mild assumptions. We use our learning bounds to devise new algorithms for non-stationary time series forecasting for which we report some preliminary experimental results.
Accelerated Mirror Descent in Continuous and Discrete Time,We study accelerated mirror descent dynamics in continuous and discrete time. Combining the original continuous-time motivation of mirror descent with a recent ODE interpretation of Nesterov's accelerated method, we propose a family of continuous-time descent dynamics for convex functions with Lipschitz gradients, such that the solution trajectories are guaranteed to converge to the optimum at a $O(1/t^2)$ rate. We then show that a large family of first-order accelerated methods can be obtained as a discretization of the ODE, and these methods converge at a $O(1/k^2)$ rate. This connection between accelerated mirror descent and the ODE provides an intuitive approach to the design and analysis of accelerated first-order algorithms.
Information-theoretic lower bounds for convex optimization with erroneous oracles,We consider the problem of optimizing convex and concave functions with access to an erroneous zeroth-order oracle. In particular, for a given function $x \to f(x)$ we consider optimization when one is given access to absolute error oracles that return values in [f(x) - \epsilon,f(x)+\epsilon] or relative error oracles that return value in [(1+\epsilon)f(x), (1 +\epsilon)f (x)], for some \epsilon larger than 0. We show stark information theoretic impossibility results for minimizing convex functions and maximizing concave functions over polytopes in this model.
Bandit Smooth Convex Optimization: Improving the Bias-Variance Tradeoff,Bandit convex optimization is one of the fundamental problems in the field of online learning. The best algorithm for the general bandit convex optimization problem guarantees a regret of $\widetilde{O}(T^{5/6})$, while the best known lower bound is $\Omega(T^{1/2})$. Many attemptshave been made to bridge the huge gap between these bounds. A particularly interesting special case of this problem assumes that the loss functions are smooth. In this case, the best known algorithm guarantees a regret of $\widetilde{O}(T^{2/3})$. We present an efficient algorithm for the banditsmooth convex optimization problem that guarantees a regret of $\widetilde{O}(T^{5/8})$. Our result rules out an $\Omega(T^{2/3})$ lower bound and takes a significant step towards the resolution of this open problem.
Beyond Sub-Gaussian Measurements: High-Dimensional Structured Estimation with Sub-Exponential Designs,We consider the problem of high-dimensional structured estimation with norm-regularized estimators, such as Lasso, when the design matrix and noise are drawn from sub-exponential distributions.Existing results only consider sub-Gaussian designs and noise, and both the sample complexity and non-asymptotic estimation error have been shown to depend on the Gaussian width of suitable sets. In contrast, for the sub-exponential setting, we show that the sample complexity and the estimation error will depend on the exponential width of the corresponding sets, and the analysis holds for any norm. Further, using generic chaining, we show that the exponential width for any set will be at most $\sqrt{\log p}$ times the Gaussian width of the set, yielding Gaussian width based results even for the sub-exponential case. Further, for certain popular estimators, viz Lasso and Group Lasso, using a VC-dimension based analysis, we show that the sample complexity will in fact be the same order as Gaussian designs. Our general analysis and results are the first in the sub-exponential setting, and are readily applicable to special sub-exponential families such as log-concave and extreme-value distributions.
Adaptive Online Learning,We propose a general framework for studying adaptive regret bounds in the online learning setting, subsuming model selection and data-dependent bounds. Given a data- or model-dependent bound we ask, Does there exist some algorithm achieving this bound? We show that modifications to recently introduced sequential complexity measures can be used to answer this question by providing sufficient conditions under which adaptive rates can be achieved. In particular each adaptive rate induces a set of so-called offset complexity measures, and obtaining small upper bounds on these quantities is sufficient to demonstrate achievability. A cornerstone of our analysis technique is the use of one-sided tail inequalities to bound suprema of offset random processes.Our framework recovers and improves a wide variety of adaptive bounds including quantile bounds, second order data-dependent bounds, and small loss bounds. In addition we derive a new type of adaptive bound for online linear optimization based on the spectral norm, as well as a new online PAC-Bayes theorem.
Teaching Machines to Read and Comprehend,Teaching machines to read natural language documents remains an elusive challenge. Machine reading systems can be tested on their ability to answer questions posed on the contents of documents that they have seen, but until now large scale training and test datasets have been missing for this type of evaluation. In this work we define a new methodology that resolves this bottleneck and provides large scale supervised reading comprehension data. This allows us to develop a class of attention based deep neural networks that learn to read real documents and answer complex questions with minimal prior knowledge of language structure.
Saliency, Scale and Information: Towards a Unifying Theory,In this paper we present a definition for visual saliency grounded in information theory. This proposal is shown to relate to a variety of classic research contributions in scale-space theory, interest point detection, bilateral filtering, and to existing models of visual saliency. Based on the proposed definition of visual saliency, we demonstrate results competitive with the state-of-the art for both prediction of human fixations, and segmentation of salient objects. We also characterize different properties of this model including robustness to image transformations, and extension to a wide range of other data types with 3D mesh models serving as an example. Finally, we relate this proposal more generally to the role of saliency computation in visual information processing and draw connections to putative mechanisms for saliency computation in human vision.
Semi-supervised Learning with Ladder Networks,We combine supervised learning with unsupervised learning in deep neural networks. The proposed model is trained to simultaneously minimize the sum of supervised and unsupervised cost functions by backpropagation, avoiding the need for layer-wise pre-training. Our work builds on top of the Ladder network proposed by Valpola (2015) which we extend by combining the model with supervision. We show that the resulting model reaches state-of-the-art performance in semi-supervised MNIST and CIFAR-10 classification in addition to permutation-invariant MNIST classification with all labels.
Enforcing balance allows local supervised learning in spiking recurrent networks,To predict sensory inputs or control motor trajectories, the brain must constantlylearn temporal dynamics based on error feedback. However, it remainsunclear how such supervised learning is implemented in biological neural networks.Learning in recurrent spiking networks is notoriously difficult because localchanges in connectivity may have an unpredictable effect on the global dynamics.The most commonly used learning rules, such as temporal back-propagation,are not local and thus not biologically plausible. Furthermore, reproducing thePoisson-like statistics of neural responses requires the use of networks with balancedexcitation and inhibition. Such balance is easily destroyed during learning.Using a top-down approach, we show how networks of integrate-and-fire neuronscan learn arbitrary linear dynamical systems by feeding back their error asa feed-forward input. The network uses two types of recurrent connections: fastand slow. The fast connections learn to balance excitation and inhibition using avoltage-based plasticity rule. The slow connections are trained to minimize theerror feedback using a current-based Hebbian learning rule. Importantly, the balancemaintained by fast connections is crucial to ensure that global error signalsare available locally in each neuron, in turn resulting in a local learning rule forthe slow connections. This demonstrates that spiking networks can learn complexdynamics using purely local learning rules, using E/I balance as the key ratherthan an additional constraint. The resulting network implements a given functionwithin the predictive coding scheme, with minimal dimensions and activity.
Semi-supervised Sequence Learning,We present two approaches to use unlabeled data to improve Sequence Learningwith recurrent networks. The first approach is to predict what comes next in asequence, which is a language model in NLP. The second approach is to use asequence autoencoder, which reads the input sequence into a vector and predictsthe input sequence again. These two algorithms can be used as a pretrainingalgorithm for a later supervised sequence learning algorithm. In other words, theparameters obtained from the pretraining step can then be used as a starting pointfor other supervised training models. In our experiments, we find that long shortterm memory recurrent networks after pretrained with the two approaches becomemore stable to train and generalize better. With pretraining, we were able toachieve strong performance in many classification tasks, such as text classificationwith IMDB, DBpedia or image recognition in CIFAR-10.
Skip-Thought Vectors,We describe an approach for unsupervised learning of a generic, distributed sentence encoder. Using the continuity of text from books, we train an encoder-decoder model that tries to reconstruct the surrounding sentences of an encoded passage. Sentences that share semantic and syntactic properties are thus mapped to similar vector representations. We next introduce a simple vocabulary expansion method to encode words that were not seen as part of training, allowing us to expand our vocabulary to a million words. After training our model, we extract and evaluate our vectors with linear models on 8 tasks: semantic relatedness, paraphrase detection, image-sentence ranking, question-type classification and 4 benchmark sentiment and subjectivity datasets. The end result is an off-the-shelf encoder that can produce highly generic sentence representations that are robust and perform well in practice. We will make our encoder publicly available. 
Learning to Linearize Under Uncertainty,Training deep feature hierarchies to solve supervised learning tasks has achieving state of the art performance on many problems in computer vision. However, a principled way in which to train such hierarchies in the unsupervised setting has remained elusive. In this work we suggest a new architecture and loss for training deep feature hierarchies that linearize the transformations observed in unlabelednatural video sequences. This is done by training a generative model to predict video frames. We also address the problem of inherent uncertainty in prediction by introducing a latent variables that are non-deterministic functions of the input into the network architecture.
Synaptic Sampling: A Bayesian Approach to Neural Network Plasticity and Rewiring,We reexamine in this article the conceptual and mathematical framework for understanding the organization of plasticity in spiking neural networks. We propose that inherent stochasticity enables synaptic plasticity to carry out probabilistic inference by sampling from a posterior distribution of synaptic parameters. This view provides a viable alternative to existing models that propose convergence of synaptic weights to maximum likelihood parameters. It explains how priors on weight distributions and connection probabilities can be merged optimally with learned experience. In simulations we show that our model for synaptic plasticity allows spiking neural networks to compensate continuously for unforeseen disturbances. Furthermore it provides a normative mathematical framework to better understand the permanent variability and rewiring observed in brain networks.
Natural Neural Networks,We introduce Natural Neural Networks, a novel family of algorithms that speed up convergence by adapting their internal representation during training to improve conditioning of the Fisher matrix. In particular, we show a specific example that employs a simple and efficient reparametrization of the neural network weights by implicitly whitening the representation obtained at each layer, while preserving the feed-forward computation of the network. Such networks can be trained efficiently via the proposed Projected Natural Gradient Descent algorithm (PRONG), which amortizes the cost of these reparametrizations over many parameter updates and is closely related to the Mirror Descent online learning algorithm. We highlight the benefits of our method on both unsupervised and supervised learning tasks, and showcase its scalability by training on the large-scale ImageNet Challenge dataset.
Convolutional Networks on Graphs for Learning Molecular Fingerprints,We introduce a convolutional neural network that operates directly on graphs.These networks allow end-to-end learning of prediction pipelines whose inputs are graphs of arbitrary size and shape.The architecture we present generalizes standard molecular feature extraction methods based on circular fingerprints.We show that these data-driven features are more interpretable, and have better predictive performance on a variety of tasks.
Convolutional LSTM Network: A Machine Learning Approach for Precipitation Nowcasting,The goal of precipitation nowcasting is to predict the future rainfall intensity in a local region over a relatively short period of time. Very few previous studies have examined this crucial and challenging weather forecasting problem from the machine learning perspective. In this paper, we formulate precipitation nowcasting as a spatiotemporal sequence forecasting problem in which both the input and the prediction target are spatiotemporal sequences. By extending the fully connected LSTM (FC-LSTM) to have convolutional structures in both the input-to-state and state-to-state transitions, we propose the convolutional LSTM (ConvLSTM) and use it to build an end-to-end trainable model for the precipitation nowcasting problem. Experiments show that our ConvLSTM network captures spatiotemporal correlations better and consistently outperforms FC-LSTM and the state-of-the-art operational ROVER algorithm for precipitation nowcasting.
Scheduled Sampling for Sequence Prediction with Recurrent Neural Networks,Recurrent Neural Networks can be trained to produce sequences of tokens given some input, as exemplified by recent results in machine translation and image captioning. The current approach to training them consists of maximizing the likelihood of each token in the sequence given the current (recurrent) state and the previous token. At inference, the unknown previous token is then replaced by a token generated by the model itself. This discrepancy between training and inference can yield errors that can accumulate quickly along the generated sequence.  We propose a curriculum learning strategy to gently change the training process from a fully guided scheme using the true previous token, towards a less guided scheme which mostly uses the generated token instead.  Experiments on several sequence prediction tasks show that this approach yields significant improvements. Moreover, it was used successfully in our winning bid to the MSCOCO image captioning challenge, 2015.
Mind the Gap: A Generative Approach to Interpretable Feature Selection and Extraction,We present the Mind the Gap Model (MGM), an approach for interpretable feature extraction and selection.  By placing interpretability criteria directly into the model, we allow for the model to both optimize parameters related to interpretability and to directly report a global set of distinguishable dimensions to assist with further data exploration and hypothesis generation. MGM extracts distinguishing features on real-world datasets of animal features, recipes ingredients, and disease co-occurrence.  It also maintains or improves performance when compared to related approaches.  We perform a user study with domain experts to show the MGM's ability to help with dataset exploration.
Max-Margin Deep Generative Models,Deep generative models (DGMs) are effective on learning multilayered representations of complex data and performing inference of input data by exploring the generative ability. However, little work has been done on examining or empowering the discriminative ability of DGMs on making accurate predictions. This paper presents max-margin deep generative models (mmDGMs), which explore the strongly discriminative principle of max-margin learning to improve the discriminative power of DGMs, while retaining the generative capability. We develop an efficient doubly stochastic subgradient algorithm for the piecewise linear objective. Empirical results on MNIST and SVHN datasets demonstrate that (1) max-margin learning can significantly improve the prediction performance of DGMs and meanwhile retain the generative ability; and (2) mmDGMs are competitive to the state-of-the-art fully discriminative networks by employing deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) as both recognition and generative models. 
Cross-Domain Matching for Bag-of-Words Data via Kernel Embeddings of Latent Distributions,We propose a kernel-based method for finding matching between instances across different domains, such as multilingual documents and images with annotations. Each instance is assumed to be represented as a multiset of features, e.g., a bag-of-words representation for documents. The major difficulty in finding cross-domain relationships is that the similarity between instances in different domains cannot be directly measured. To overcome this difficulty, the proposed method embeds all the features of different domains in a shared latent space, and regards each instance as a distribution of its own features in the shared latent space. To represent the distributions efficiently and nonparametrically, we employ the framework of the kernel embeddings of distributions. The embedding is estimated so as to minimize the difference between distributions of paired instances while keeping unpaired instances apart. In our experiments, we show that the proposed method can achieve high performance on finding correspondence between multi-lingual Wikipedia articles, between documents and tags, and between images and tags.
A Gaussian Process Model of Quasar Spectral Energy Distributions,We propose a method for combining two sources of astronomical data, spectroscopy and photometry, that carry information about sources of light (e.g., stars, galaxies, and quasars) at extremely different spectral resolutions.  Our model treats the spectral energy distribution (SED) of the radiation from a source as a latent variable that jointly explains both photometric and spectroscopic observations.  We place a flexible, nonparametric prior over the SED of a light source that admits a physically interpretable decomposition, and allows us to tractably perform inference.  We use our model to predict the distribution of the redshift of a quasar from five-band (low spectral resolution) photometric data, the so called ``photo-z'' problem. Our method shows that tools from machine learning and Bayesian statistics allow us to leverage multiple resolutions of information to make accurate predictions with well-characterized uncertainties. 
Neural Adaptive Sequential Monte Carlo,Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC), or particle filtering, is a popular class of methods for sampling from an intractable target distribution using a sequence of simpler intermediate distributions. Like other importance sampling-based methods, performance is critically dependent on the proposal distribution: a bad proposal can lead to arbitrarily inaccurate estimates of the target distribution. This paper presents a new method for automatically adapting the proposal using an approximation of the Kullback-Leibler divergence between the true posterior and the proposal distribution. The method is very flexible, applicable to any parameterized proposal distribution and it supports online and batch variants. We use the new framework to adapt powerful proposal distributions with rich parameterizations based upon neural networks leading to Neural Adaptive Sequential Monte Carlo (NASMC). Experiments indicate that NASMC significantly improves inference in a non-linear state space model outperforming adaptive proposal methods including the Extended Kalman and Unscented Particle Filters. Experiments also indicate that improved inference translates into improved parameter learning when NASMC is used as a subroutine of Particle Marginal Metropolis Hastings. Finally we show that NASMC is able to train a latent variable recurrent neural network (LV-RNN) achieving results that compete with the state-of-the-art for polymorphic music modelling. NASMC can be seen as bridging the gap between adaptive SMC methods and the recent work in scalable, black-box variational inference.
Convolutional spike-triggered covariance analysis for neural subunit models,Subunit models provide a powerful yet parsimonious description of  neural spike responses to complex stimuli. They can be expressed by  a cascade of two linear-nonlinear (LN) stages, with the first linear  stage defined by convolution with one or more filters.  Recent  interest in such models has surged due to their biological  plausibility and accuracy for characterizing early sensory  responses. However, fitting subunit models poses a difficult  computational challenge due to the expense of evaluating the  log-likelihood and the ubiquity of local optima.  Here we address  this problem by forging a theoretical connection between  spike-triggered covariance analysis and nonlinear subunit models.  Specifically, we show that a ''convolutional'' decomposition of the  spike-triggered average (STA) and covariance (STC) provides an  asymptotically efficient estimator for the subunit model under  certain technical conditions. We also prove the identifiability of  such convolutional decomposition under mild assumptions.  Our  moment-based methods outperform highly regularized versions of the  GQM on neural data from macaque primary visual cortex, and achieves  nearly the same prediction performance as the full  maximum-likelihood estimator, yet with substantially lower cost.
Rectified Factor Networks,We propose rectified factor networks (RFNs) to efficiently construct very sparse, non-linear, high-dimensional representations of the input. RFN models identify rare and small events, have a low interference between code units, have a small reconstruction error, and explain the data covariance structure. RFN learning is a generalized alternating minimization algorithm derived from the posterior regularization method which enforces non-negative and normalized posterior means. We proof convergence and correctness of the RFN learning algorithm.On benchmarks, RFNs are compared to other unsupervised methods like autoencoders, RBMs, factor analysis, ICA, and PCA. In contrast to previous sparse coding methods, RFNs yield sparser codes, capture the data's covariance structure more precisely, and have a significantly smaller reconstruction error. We test RFNs as pretraining technique of deep networks on different vision datasets, where RFNs were superior to RBMs and autoencoders. On gene expression data from two pharmaceutical drug discovery studies, RFNs detected small and rare gene modules that revealed highly relevant new biological insights which were so far missed by other unsupervised methods.RFN package for GPU/CPU is available at http://www.bioinf.jku.at/software/rfn.
Embed to Control: A Locally Linear Latent Dynamics Model for Control from Raw Images,We introduce Embed to Control (E2C), a method for model learning and control of non-linear dynamical systems from raw pixel images. E2C consists of a deep generative model, belonging to the family of variational autoencoders, that learns to generate image trajectories from a latent space in which the dynamics is constrained to be locally linear. Our model is derived directly from an optimal control formulation in latent space, supports long-term prediction of image sequences and exhibits strong performance on a variety of complex control problems. 
Bayesian dark knowledge,We consider the problem of Bayesian parameter estimation for deep neural networks, which is important in problem settings where we may have little data, and/ or where we need accurate posterior predictive densities p(y|x, D), e.g., for applications involving bandits or active learning. One simple approach to this is to use online Monte Carlo methods, such as SGLD (stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics). Unfortunately, such a method needs to store many copies of the parameters (which wastes memory), and needs to make predictions using many versions of the model (which wastes time).We describe a method for distilling a Monte Carlo approximation to the posterior predictive density into a more compact form, namely a single deep neural network. We compare to two very recent approaches to Bayesian neural networks, namely an approach based on expectation propagation [HLA15] and an approach based on variational Bayes [BCKW15]. Our method performs better than both of these, is much simpler to implement, and uses less computation at test time.
GP Kernels for Cross-Spectrum Analysis,Multi-output Gaussian processes provide a convenient framework for multi-task problems.  An illustrative and motivating example of a multi-task problem is multi-region electrophysiological time-series data, where experimentalists are interested in both power and phase coherence between channels.  Recently, Wilson and Adams (2013) proposed the spectral mixture (SM) kernel to model the spectral density of a single task in a Gaussian process framework.  In this paper, we develop a novel covariance kernel for multiple outputs, called the cross-spectral mixture (CSM) kernel.  This new, flexible kernel represents both the power and phase relationship between multiple observation channels.  We demonstrate the expressive capabilities of the CSM kernel through implementation of a Bayesian hidden Markov model, where the emission distribution is a multi-output Gaussian process with a CSM covariance kernel.  Results are presented for measured multi-region electrophysiological data.
End-to-end Learning of LDA by Mirror-Descent Back Propagation over a Deep Architecture,We develop a fully discriminative learning approach for supervised Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) model using Back Propagation (i.e., BP-sLDA), which maximizes the posterior probability of the prediction variable given the input document. Different from traditional variational learning or Gibbs sampling approaches, the proposed learning method applies (i) the mirror descent algorithm for maximum a posterior inference and (ii) back propagation over a deep architecture together with stochastic gradient/mirror descent for model parameter estimation, leading to scalable and end-to-end discriminative learning of the model.  As a byproduct, we also apply this technique to develop a new learning method for the traditional unsupervised LDA model (i.e., BP-LDA). Experimental results on three real-world regression and classification tasks show that the proposed methods significantly outperform the previous supervised topic models, neural networks, and is on par with deep neural networks.
Particle Gibbs for Infinite Hidden Markov Models,Infinite Hidden Markov Models (iHMM's) are an attractive, nonparametric generalization of the classical Hidden Markov Model which can automatically infer the number of hidden states in the system.  However, due to the infinite-dimensional nature of the transition dynamics, performing inference in the iHMM is difficult. In this paper, we present an infinite-state Particle Gibbs (PG) algorithm to resample state trajectories for the iHMM. The proposed algorithm uses an efficient proposal optimized for iHMMs, and leverages ancestor sampling to improve the mixing of the standard PG algorithm. Our algorithm demonstrates significant convergence improvements on synthetic and real world data sets. 
Sparse Local Embeddings for Extreme Multi-label Classification,The objective in extreme multi-label learning is to train a classifier that can automatically tag a novel data point with the most relevant subset of labels from an extremely large label set. Embedding based approaches make training and prediction tractable by assuming that the training label matrix is low-rank and hence the effective number of labels can be reduced by projecting the high dimensional label vectors onto a low dimensional linear subspace. Still, leading embedding approaches have been unable to deliver high prediction accuracies or scale to large problems as the low rank assumption is violated in most real world applications.This paper develops the SLEEC classifier to address both limitations. The main technical contribution in SLEEC is a formulation for learning a small ensemble of local distance preserving embeddings which can accurately predict infrequently occurring (tail) labels. This allows SLEEC to break free of the traditional low-rank assumption and boost classification accuracy by learning embeddings which preserve pairwise distances between only the nearest label vectors. We conducted extensive experiments on several real-world as well as benchmark data sets and compare our method against state-of-the-art methods for extreme multi-label classification. Experiments reveal that SLEEC can make significantly more accurate predictions then the state-of-the-art methods including both embeddings (by as much as 35%) as well as trees (by as much as 6%). SLEEC can also scale efficiently to data sets with a million labels which are beyond the pale of leading embedding methods.
Robust Spectral Inference for Joint Stochastic Matrix Factorization,Spectral inference provides fast algorithms and provable optimality for latent topic analysis. But for real data these algorithms require additional ad-hoc heuristics, and even then often produce unusable results. We explain this poor performance by casting the problem of topic inference in the framework of Joint Stochastic Matrix Factorization (JSMF) and showing that previous methods violate the theoretical conditions necessary for a good solution to exist. We then propose a novel rectification method that learns high quality topics and their interactions even on small, noisy data. This method achieves results comparable to probabilistic techniques in several domains while maintaining scalability and provable optimality.
Space-Time Local Embeddings,Space-time is a profound concept in physics. This concept was shown to be useful for dimensionality reduction. We present basic definitions with interesting counter-intuitions. We give theoretical propositions to show that space-time is a more powerful representation than Euclidean space. We apply this concept to manifold learning for preserving local information. Empirical results on non-metric datasets show that more information can be preserved in space-time.
A fast, universal algorithm to learn parametric nonlinear embeddings,Nonlinear embedding algorithms such as stochastic neighbor embedding do dimensionality reduction by optimizing an objective function involving similarities between pairs of input patterns. The result is a low-dimensional projection of each input pattern. A common way to define an out-of-sample mapping is to optimize the objective directly over a parametric mapping of the inputs, such as a neural net. This can be done using the chain rule and a nonlinear optimizer, but is very slow, because the objective involves a quadratic number of terms each dependent on the entire mapping's parameters. Using the method of auxiliary coordinates, we derive a training algorithm that works by alternating steps that train an auxiliary embedding with steps that train the mapping. This has two advantages: 1) The algorithm is universal in that a specific learning algorithm for any choice of embedding and mapping can be constructed by simply reusing existing algorithms for the embedding and for the mapping. A user can then try possible mappings and embeddings with less effort. 2) The algorithm is fast, and it can reuse N-body methods developed for nonlinear embeddings, yielding linear-time iterations.
Bayesian Manifold Learning: The Locally Linear Latent Variable Model (LL-LVM),We introduce the Locally Linear Latent Variable Model (LL-LVM), a probabilistic model for non-linear manifold discovery that describes a joint distribution over observations, their manifold coordinates and locally linear maps conditioned on a set of neighbourhood relationships. The model allows straightforward variational optimisation of the posterior distribution on coordinates and locally linear maps from the latent space to the observation space given the data. Thus, the LL-LVM encapsulates the local-geometry preserving intuitions that underlie non-probabilistic methods such as locally linear embedding (LLE). Its probabilistic semantics make it easy to evaluate the quality of hypothesised neighbourhood relationships, select the intrinsic dimensionality of the manifold, construct out-of-sample extensions and to combine the manifold model with additional probabilistic models that capture the structure of coordinates within the manifold.
Local Causal Discovery of Direct Causes and Effects,We focus on the discovery and identification of direct causes and effects of a target variable in a causal network. State-of-the-art algorithms generally need to find the global causal structures in the form of complete partial directed acyclic graphs in order to identify the direct causes and effects of a target variable. While these algorithms are effective, it is often unnecessary and wasteful to find the global structures when we are only interested in one target variable (such as class labels). We propose a new local causal discovery algorithm, called Causal Markov Blanket (CMB), to identify the direct causes and effects of a target variable based on Markov Blanket Discovery. CMB is designed to conduct causal discovery among multiple variables, but focuses only on finding causal relationships between a specific target variable and other variables. Under standard assumptions, we show both theoretically and experimentally that the proposed local causal discovery algorithm can obtain the comparable identification accuracy as global methods but significantly improve their efficiency, often by more than one order of magnitude.
Discriminative Robust Transformation Learning,This paper proposes a framework for learning features that are robust to data variation, which is particularly important when only a limited number of trainingsamples are available. The framework makes it possible to tradeoff the discriminative value of learned features against the generalization error of the learning algorithm. Robustness is achieved by encouraging the transform that maps data to features to be a local isometry. This geometric property is shown to improve (K, \epsilon)-robustness, thereby providing theoretical justification for reductions in generalization error observed in experiments. The proposed optimization frameworkis used to train standard learning algorithms such as deep neural networks. Experimental results obtained on benchmark datasets, such as labeled faces in the wild,demonstrate the value of being able to balance discrimination and robustness.
Max-Margin Majority Voting for Learning from Crowds,Learning-from-crowds aims to design proper aggregation strategies to infer the unknown true labels from the noisy labels provided by ordinary web workers. This paper presents max-margin majority voting (M^3V) to improve the discriminative ability of majority voting and further presents a Bayesian generalization to incorporate the flexibility of generative methods on modeling noisy observations with worker confusion matrices. We formulate the joint learning as a regularized Bayesian inference problem, where the posterior regularization is derived by maximizing the margin between the aggregated score of a potential true label and that of any alternative label. Our Bayesian model naturally covers the Dawid-Skene estimator and M^3V. Empirical results demonstrate that our methods are competitive, often achieving better results than state-of-the-art estimators.
M-Best-Diverse Labelings for Submodular Energies and Beyond,We consider the problem of finding M best diverse solutions of energy minimization problems for graphical models. Contrary to the sequential method of Batra et al., which greedily finds one solution after another, we infer all $M$ solutions jointly. It was shown recently that such jointly inferred labelings not only have smaller total energy but also qualitatively outperform the sequentially obtained ones. The only obstacle for using this new technique is the complexity of the corresponding inference problem, since it is considerably slower algorithm than the method of Batra et al. In this work we show that the joint inference of $M$ best diverse solutions can be formulated as a submodular energy minimization if the original MAP-inference problem is submodular, hence fast inference techniques can be used. In addition to the theoretical results we provide practical algorithms that outperform the current state-of-the art and can be used in both submodular and non-submodular case.
Covariance-Controlled Adaptive Langevin Thermostat for Large-Scale Bayesian Sampling,Monte Carlo sampling for Bayesian posterior inference is a common approach used in machine learning. The Markov Chain Monte Carlo procedures that are used are often discrete-time analogues of associated stochastic differential equations (SDEs). These SDEs are guaranteed to leave invariant the required posterior distribution. An area of current research addresses the computational benefits of stochastic gradient methods in this setting. Existing techniques rely on estimating the variance or covariance of the subsampling error, and typically assume constant variance. In this article, we propose a covariance-controlled adaptive Langevin thermostat that can effectively dissipate parameter-dependent noise while maintaining a desired target distribution. The proposed method achieves a substantial speedup over popular alternative schemes for large-scale machine learning applications.
Time-Sensitive Recommendation From Recurrent User Activities,By making personalized suggestions, a recommender system is playing a crucial role in improving the engagement of users in modern web-services. However, most recommendation algorithms do not explicitly take into account the temporal behavior and the recurrent activities of users. Two central but less explored questions are how to recommend the most desirable item \emph{at the right moment}, and how to predict \emph{the next returning time} of a user to a service. To address these questions, we propose a novel framework which connects self-exciting point processes and low-rank models to capture the recurrent temporal patterns in a large collection of user-item consumption pairs. We show that the parameters of the model can be estimated via a convex optimization, and furthermore, we develop an efficient algorithm that maintains $O(1 / \epsilon)$ convergence rate, scales up to problems with millions of user-item pairs and thousands of millions of temporal events. Compared to other state-of-the-arts in both synthetic and real datasets, our model achieves superb predictive performance in the two time-sensitive recommendation questions. Finally, we point out that our formulation can incorporate other extra context information of users, such as profile, textual and spatial features.
Parallel Recursive Best-First AND/OR Search for Exact MAP Inference in Graphical Models,The paper presents and evaluates the power of parallel search for exact MAP inference in graphical models. We introduce a new parallel shared-memory recursive best-first AND/OR search algorithm, called SPRBFAOO, that explores the search space in a best-first manner while operating with restricted memory. Our experiments show that SPRBFAOO is often superior to the current state-of-the-art sequential AND/OR search approaches, leading to considerable speed-ups (up to 7-fold with 12 threads), especially on hard problem instances.
Logarithmic Time Online Multiclass prediction,We study the problem of multiclass classification with an extremely large number of classes (k), with the goal of obtaining train and test time complexity logarithmic in the number of classes. We develop top-down tree construction approaches for constructing logarithmic depth trees. On the theoretical front, we formulate a new objective function, which is optimized at each node of the tree and creates dynamic partitions of the data which are both pure (in terms of class labels) and balanced. We demonstrate that under favorable conditions, we can construct logarithmic depth trees that have leaves with low label entropy. However, the objective function at the nodes is challenging to optimize computationally. We address the empirical problem with a new online decision tree construction procedure. Experiments demonstrate that this online algorithm quickly achieves improvement in test error compared to more common logarithmic training time approaches, which makes it a plausible method in computationally constrained large-k applications.
Scalable Semi-Supervised Aggregation of Classifiers,We present and empirically evaluate an efficient algorithm that learns to aggregate the predictions of an ensemble of binary classifiers. The algorithm uses the structure of the ensemble predictions on unlabeled data to yield significant performance improvements. It does this without making assumptions on the structure or origin of the ensemble, without parameters, and as scalably as linear learning. We empirically demonstrate these performance gains with random forests.
Bounding the Cost of Search-Based Lifted Inference,Recently, there has been growing interest in systematic search-based and importance sampling-based lifted inference algorithms for statistical relational models (SRMs). These lifted algorithms achieve significant complexity reductions over their propositional counterparts by using lifting rules that leverage symmetries in the relational representation. One drawback of these algorithms is that they use an inference-blind representation of the search space, which makes it difficult to efficiently pre-compute tight upper bounds on the exact cost of inference without running the algorithm to completion. In this paper, we present a principled approach to address this problem. We introduce a lifted analogue of the propositional And/Or search space framework, which we call a lifted And/Or schematic. Given a schematic-based representation of an SRM, we show how to efficiently compute a tight upper bound on the time and space cost of exact inference from a current assignment and the remaining schematic. We show how our bounding method can be used within a lifted importance sampling algorithm, in order to perform effective Rao-Blackwellisation, and demonstrate experimentally that the Rao-Blackwellised version of the algorithm yields more accurate estimates on several real-world datasets.
Efficient Learning by Directed Acyclic Graph For Resource Constrained Prediction,We study the problem of reducing test-time acquisition costs in classification systems. Our goal is to learn decision rules that adaptively select sensors for each example as necessary to make a confident prediction. We model our system as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) where internal nodes correspond to sensor subsets and decision functions at each node choose whether to acquire a new sensor or classify using the available measurements. This problem can be naturally posed as an empirical risk minimization over training data. Rather than jointly optimizing such a highly coupled and non-convex problem over all decision nodes, we propose an efficient algorithm motivated by dynamic programming. We learn node policies in the DAG by reducing the global objective to a series of cost sensitive learning problems. Our approach is computationally efficient and has proven guarantees of convergence to the optimal system for a fixed architecture. In addition, we present an extension to map other budgeted learning problems with large number of sensors to our DAG architecture and demonstrate empirical performance exceeding state-of-the-art algorithms for data composed of both few and many sensors.
Estimating Jaccard Index with Missing Observations: A Matrix Calibration Approach,The Jaccard index is a standard statistics for comparing the pairwise similarity between data samples. This paper investigates the problem of estimating a Jaccard index matrix when there are missing observations in data samples. Starting from a Jaccard index matrix approximated from the incomplete data, our method calibrates the matrix to meet the requirement of positive semi-definiteness and other constraints, through a simple alternating projection algorithm. Compared with conventional approaches that estimate the similarity matrix based on the imputed data, our method has a strong advantage in that the calibrated matrix is guaranteed to be closer to the unknown ground truth in the Frobenius norm than the un-calibrated matrix (except in special cases they are identical). We carried out a series of empirical experiments and the results confirmed our theoretical justification. The evaluation also reported significantly improved results in real learning tasks on benchmarked datasets.
Sample Efficient Path Integral Control under Uncertainty,We present a data-driven stochastic optimal control framework that is derived using the path integral (PI) control approach. We find iterative control laws analytically without a priori policy parameterization based on probabilistic representation of the learned dynamics model. The proposed algorithm operates in a forward-backward sweep manner which differentiate it from other PI-related methods that perform forward sampling to find open-loop optimal controls.    Our method uses significantly less sampled data to find analytic control laws compared to other approaches within the PI control family that rely on extensive sampling from given dynamics models or trials on physical systems in a model-free fashion. In addition, the learned controllers can be generalized to new tasks without re-sampling based on the compositionality theory for the linearly-solvable optimal control framework.We provide experimental results on three different systems and comparisons with state-of-the-art model-based methods to demonstrate the efficiency and generalizability of the proposed framework.
Efficient Thompson Sampling for Online Matrix-Factorization Recommendation,Matrix factorization (MF) collaborative filtering is an effective and widely used method in recommendation systems. However, the problem of finding an optimal trade-off between exploration and exploitation (otherwise known as the bandit problem), a crucial problem in collaborative filtering from cold-start, has not been previously addressed.In this paper, we present a novel algorithm for online MF recommendation that automatically combines finding the most relevantitems with exploring new or less-recommended items.Our approach, called Particle Thompson Sampling for Matrix-Factorization, is based on the general Thompson sampling framework, but augmented with a novel efficient online Bayesian probabilistic matrix factorization method based on the Rao-Blackwellized particle filter.Extensive experiments in collaborative filtering using several real-world datasets demonstrate that our proposed algorithm significantly outperforms the current state-of-the-arts.
Parallelizing MCMC with Random Partition Trees,The modern scale of data has brought new challenges to Bayesian inference. In particular, conventional MCMC algorithms are computationally very expensive for large data sets.  A promising approach to solve this problem is embarrassingly parallel MCMC (EP-MCMC), which first partitions the data into multiple subsets and runs independent sampling algorithms on each subset. The subset posterior draws are then aggregated via some combining rules to obtain the final approximation. Existing EP-MCMC algorithms are limited by approximation accuracy and difficulty in resampling. In this article, we propose a new EP-MCMC algorithm PART that solves these problems. The new algorithm applies random partition trees to combine the subset posterior draws, which is distribution-free, easy to resample from and can adapt to multiple scales. We provide theoretical justification and extensive experiments illustrating empirical performance.
Fast Lifted MAP Inference via Partitioning,Recently, there has been growing interest in lifting MAP inference algorithms for Markov logic networks (MLNs). A key advantage of these lifted algorithms is that they have much smaller computational complexity than propositional algorithms when symmetries are present in the MLN and these symmetries can be detected using lifted inference rules. Unfortunately, lifted inference rules are sound but not complete and can often miss many symmetries. This is problematic because when symmetries cannot be exploited, lifted inference algorithms ground the MLN, and search for solutions in the much larger propositional space. In this paper, we present a novel approach, which cleverly introduces new symmetries at the time of grounding. Our main idea is to partition the ground atoms and force the inference algorithm to treat all atoms in each part as indistinguishable. We show that by systematically and carefully refining (and growing) the partitions, we can build advanced any-time and any-space MAP inference algorithms. Our experiments on several real-world datasets clearly show that our new algorithm is superior to previous approaches and often finds useful symmetries in the search space that existing lifted inference rules are unable to detect.
Active Learning from Weak and Strong Labelers,An active learner is given a hypothesis class, a large set of unlabeled examples and the ability to interactively query labels to an oracle of a subset of these examples; the goal of the learner is to learn a hypothesis in the class that fits the data well by making as few label queries as possible.This work addresses active learning with labels obtained from strong and weak labelers, where in addition to the standard active learning setting, we have an extra weak labeler which may occasionally provide incorrect labels. An example is learning to classify medical images where either expensive labels may be obtained from a physician (oracle or strong labeler), or cheaper but occasionally incorrect labels may be obtained from a medical resident (weak labeler). Our goal is to learn a classifier with low error on data labeled by the oracle, while using the weak labeler to reduce the number of label queries made to this labeler. We provide an active learning algorithm for this setting, establish its statistical consistency, and analyze its label complexity to characterize when it can provide label savings over using the strong labeler alone.
Fast and Guaranteed Tensor Decomposition via Sketching,Tensor CANDECOMP/PARAFAC (CP) decomposition has wide applications in statistical learning of latent variable models and in data mining. In this paper, we propose fast and randomized tensor CP decomposition algorithms based on sketching. We build on the idea of count sketches, but introduce many novel ideas which are unique to tensors. We develop novel methods for randomized com- putation of tensor contractions via FFTs, without explicitly forming the tensors. Such tensor contractions are encountered in decomposition methods such as ten- sor power iterations and alternating least squares. We also design novel colliding hashes for symmetric tensors to further save time in computing the sketches. We then combine these sketching ideas with existing whitening and tensor power iter- ative techniques to obtain the fastest algorithm on both sparse and dense tensors. The quality of approximation under our method does not depend on properties such as sparsity, uniformity of elements, etc. We apply the method for topic mod- eling and obtain competitive results.
Spherical Random Features for Polynomial Kernels,Compact explicit feature maps provide a practical framework to scale kernel methods to large-scale learning, but deriving such maps for many types of kernels remains a challenging open problem. Among the commonly used kernels for nonlinear classification are polynomial kernels, for which low approximation error has thus far necessitated explicit feature maps of large dimensionality, especially for higher-order polynomials. Meanwhile, because polynomial kernels are unbounded, they are frequently applied to data that has been normalized to unit l2 norm. The question we address in this work is: if we know a priori that data is so normalized, can we devise a more compact map? We show that a putative affirmative answer to this question based on Random Fourier Features is impossible in this setting, and introduce a new approximation paradigm, Spherical Random Fourier (SRF) features, which circumvents these issues and delivers a compact approximation to polynomial kernels for data on the unit sphere. Compared to prior work, SRF features are less rank-deficient, more compact, and achieve better kernel approximation, especially for higher-order polynomials. The resulting predictions have lower variance and typically yield better classification accuracy.
Learnability of Influence in Networks,We establish PAC learnability of influence functions for three common influence models, namely, the Linear Threshold (LT), Independent Cascade (IC) and Voter models, and present concrete sample complexity results in each case. Our results for the LT model are based on interesting connections with neural networks; those for the IC model are based an interpretation of the influence function as an expectation over random draw of a subgraph and use covering number arguments; and those for the Voter model are based on a reduction to linear regression.  We show these results for the case in which the cascades are only partially observed and we do not see the time steps in which a node has been influenced.  We also provide efficient polynomial time learning algorithms for a setting with full observation, i.e. where the cascades also contain the time steps in which nodes are influenced.
A Pseudo-Euclidean Iteration for Optimal Recovery in Noisy ICA,Independent Component Analysis (ICA) is a popular model for blind signal separation. The ICA model assumes that a number of independent source signals are linearly mixed to form the observed signals. We propose a new algorithm, PEGI (for pseudo-Euclidean Gradient Iteration), for provable model recovery for ICA with Gaussian noise. The main technical innovation of the algorithm is to use a fixed point iteration in a pseudo-Euclidean (indefinite inner product) space. The use of this indefinite inner product resolves technical issues common to several existing algorithms for noisy ICA. This leads to an algorithm which is conceptually simple, efficient and accurate in testing.Our second contribution is combining PEGI with the analysis of objectives for optimal recovery in the noisy ICA model. It has been observed that the direct approach of demixing with the inverse of the mixing matrix is suboptimal for signal recovery in terms of the natural Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio (SINR) criterion. There have been several partial solutions proposed in the ICA literature. It turns out that any solution to the mixing matrix reconstruction problem can be used to construct an SINR-optimal ICA demixing, despite the fact that SINR itself cannot be computed from data. That allows us to obtain a practical and provably SINR-optimal recovery method for ICA with arbitrary Gaussian noise.
Compressive spectral embedding: sidestepping the SVD,Spectral embedding based on the Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) is a widely used "preprocessing" step in many learning tasks, typically leading to dimensionality reduction by projecting onto a number of dominant singular vectors and rescaling the coordinate axes (by a predefined function of the singular value). However, the number of such vectors required to capture problem structure grows with problem size, and even partial SVD computation becomes a bottleneck. In this paper, we propose a low-complexity it compressive spectral embedding algorithm, which employs random projections and finite order polynomial expansions to compute approximations to SVD-based embedding. For an m times n matrix with T non-zeros, its time complexity is O((T+m+n)log(m+n)), and the embedding dimension is O(log(m+n)), both of which are independent of the number of singular vectors whose effect we wish to capture. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to circumvent this dependence on the number of singular vectors for general SVD-based embeddings. The key to sidestepping the SVD is the observation that, for downstream inference tasks such as clustering and classification, we are only interested in using the resulting embedding to evaluate pairwise similarity metrics derived from the euclidean norm, rather than capturing the effect of the underlying matrix on arbitrary vectors as a partial SVD tries to do. Our numerical results on network datasets demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method, and motivate further exploration of its application to large-scale inference tasks.
Generalization in Adaptive Data Analysis and Holdout Reuse,Overfitting is the bane of data analysts, even when data are plentiful. Formal approaches to understanding this problem focus on statistical inference and generalization of individual analysis procedures. Yet the practice of data analysis is an inherently interactive and adaptive process: new analyses and hypotheses are proposed after seeing the results of previous ones, parameters are tuned on the basis of obtained results, and datasets are shared and reused.  An investigation of this gap has recently been initiated by the authors in (Dwork et al., 2014), where we focused on the problem of estimating expectations of adaptively chosen functions.In this paper, we give a simple and practical method for reusing a holdout (or testing) set to validate the accuracy of hypotheses produced by a learning algorithm operating on a training set. Reusing a  holdout set adaptively multiple times can easily lead to overfitting to the holdout set itself. We give an algorithm that enables the validation of a large number of adaptively chosen hypotheses, while provably avoiding overfitting. We illustrate the advantages of our algorithm over the standard use of the holdout set via a simple synthetic experiment.We also formalize and address the general problem of data reuse in adaptive data analysis. We show how the differential-privacy based approach  in (Dwork et al., 2014) is applicable much more broadly to adaptive data analysis. We then show that a simple approach based on description length can also be used to give guarantees of statistical validity in adaptive settings. Finally, we demonstrate that these incomparable approaches can be unified via the notion of approximate max-information that we introduce. This, in particular, allows the preservation of statistical validity guarantees even when an analyst adaptively composes algorithms which have guarantees based on either of the two approaches.
Online F-Measure Optimization,The F-measure is an important and commonly used performance metric for binary prediction tasks. By combining precision and recall into a single score, it avoids disadvantages of simple metrics like the error rate, especially in cases of imbalanced class distributions. The problem of optimizing the F-measure, that is, of developing learning algorithms that perform optimally in the sense of this measure, has recently been tackled by several authors. In this paper, we study the problem of F-measure maximization in the setting of online learning. We propose an efficient online algorithm and provide a formal analysis of its convergence properties. Moreover, first experimental results are presented, showing that our method performs well in practice.  
Matrix Completion with Noisy Side Information,We study matrix completion problem with side information.  Side information has been considered in several matrix completion applications, and is generally shown to be useful empirically.  Recently, Xu et al. studied the effect of side information for matrix completion under a theoretical viewpoint, showing that sample complexity can be significantly reduced given completely clean features.  However, since in reality most given features are noisy or even weakly informative, how to develop a general model to handle general feature set, and how much the noisy features can help matrix recovery in theory, is still an important issue to investigate. In this paper, we propose a novel model that balances between features and observations simultaneously, enabling us to leverage feature information yet to be robust to feature noise.  Moreover, we study the effectof general features in theory, and show that by using our model, the sample complexity can still be lower than matrix completion as long as features are sufficiently informative. This result provides a theoretical insight of usefulness for general side information.  Finally, we consider synthetic data and two real applications - relationship prediction and semi-supervised clustering, showing that our model outperforms other methods for matrix completion with features both in theory and practice.
A Market Framework for Eliciting Private Data,We propose a mechanism for purchasing information from a sequence of participants.The participants may simply hold data points they wish to sell, or may have more sophisticated information; either way, they are incentivized to participate as long as they believe their data points are representative or their information will improve the mechanism's future prediction on a test set.The mechanism, which draws on the principles of prediction markets, has a bounded budget and minimizes generalization error for Bregman divergence loss functions.We then show how to modify this mechanism to preserve the privacy of participants' information: At any given time, the current prices and predictions of the mechanism reveal almost no information about any one participant, yet in total over all participants, information is accurately aggregated.
Optimal Ridge Detection using Coverage Risk,We introduce the concept of coverage risk as an error measure for density ridge estimation.The coverage risk generalizes the mean integrated square error to set estimation.We propose two risk estimators for the coverage risk and we show that we can select tuning parameters by minimizing the estimated risk.We study the rate of convergence for coverage risk and prove consistency of the risk estimators.We apply our method to three simulated datasets and to cosmology data.In all the examples, the proposed method successfully recover the underlying density structure.
Fast Distributed k-Center Clustering with Outliers on Massive Data,Clustering large data is a fundamental problem with a vast number of applications.  Due to the increasing size of data, practitioners interested in clustering have turned to distributed computation methods.  In this work, we consider the widely used k-center clustering problem and its variant used to handle noisy data, k-center with outliers. In the noise-free setting we demonstrate how a previously-proposed distributed method is actually an O(1)-approximation algorithm, which accurately explains its strong empirical performance. Additionally, in the noisy setting, we develop a novel distributed algorithm that is also an O(1)-approximation. These algorithms are highly parallel and lend themselves to virtually any distributed computing framework. We compare both empirically against the best known noisy sequential clustering methods and show that both distributed algorithms are consistently close to their sequential versions. The algorithms are all one can hope for in distributed settings: they are fast, memory efficient and they match their sequential counterparts.
Orthogonal NMF through Subspace Exploration,Orthogonal Nonnegative Matrix Factorization {(ONMF)} aims to approximate a nonnegative matrix as the product of two $k$-dimensional nonnegative factors, one of which has orthonormal columns. It yields potentially useful data representations as superposition of disjoint parts, while it has been shown to work well for clustering tasks where traditional methods underperform. Existing algorithms rely mostly on heuristics, which despite their good empirical performance, lack provable performance guarantees.We present a new ONMF algorithm with provable approximation guarantees.For any constant dimension~$k$, we obtain an additive EPTAS without any assumptions on the input. Our algorithm relies on a novel approximation to the related Nonnegative Principal Component Analysis (NNPCA) problem; given an arbitrary data matrix, NNPCA seeks $k$ nonnegative components that jointly capture most of the variance. Our NNPCA algorithm is of independent interest and generalizes previous work that could only obtain guarantees for a single component. We evaluate our algorithms on several real and synthetic datasets and show that their performance matches or outperforms the state of the art.
Fast Classification Rates for High-dimensional Gaussian Generative Models,We consider the problem of binary classification when the covariates conditioned on the each of the response values follow multivariate Gaussian distributions. We focus on the setting where the covariance matrices for the two conditional distributions are the same. The corresponding generative model classifier, derived via the Bayes rule, also called Linear Discriminant Analysis, has been shown to behave poorly in high-dimensional settings. We present a novel analysis of the classification error of any linear discriminant approach given conditional Gaussian models. This allows us to compare the generative model classifier, other recently proposed discriminative approaches that directly learn the discriminant function, and then finally logistic regression which is another classical discriminative model classifier. As we show, under a natural sparsity assumption, and letting $s$ denote the sparsity of the Bayes classifier, $p$ the number of covariates, and $n$ the number of samples, the simple ($\ell_1$-regularized) logistic regression classifier achieves the fast misclassification error rates of $O\left(\frac{s \log p}{n}\right)$, which is much better than the other approaches, which are either inconsistent under high-dimensional settings, or achieve a slower rate of $O\left(\sqrt{\frac{s \log p}{n}}\right)$.
Efficient and Parsimonious Agnostic Active Learning,We develop a new active learning algorithm for the streaming settingsatisfying three important properties: 1) It provably works for anyclassifier representation and classification problem including thosewith severe noise. 2) It is efficiently implementable with an ERMoracle.  3) It is more aggressive than all previous approachessatisfying 1 and 2. To do this, we create an algorithm based on a newlydefined optimization problem and analyze it. We also conduct the firstexperimental analysis of all efficient agnostic active learningalgorithms, evaluating their strengths and weaknesses in differentsettings.
Collaborative Filtering with Graph Information: Consistency and Scalable Methods,Low rank matrix completion plays a fundamental role in collaborative filtering applications, the key idea being that the variables lie in a smaller subspace than the ambient space. Often, additional information about the variables is known, and it is reasonable to assume that incorporating this information will lead to better predictions. We tackle the problem of matrix completion when pairwise relationships among variables are known, via a graph. We formulate and derive a highly efficient, conjugate gradient based alternating minimization scheme that solves optimizations with over 55 million observations up to 2 orders of magnitude faster than state-of-the-art (stochastic) gradient-descent based methods. On the theoretical front, we show that such methods generalize weighted nuclear norm formulations, and derive statistical consistency guarantees. We validate our results on both real and synthetic datasets.
Less is More: Nystrm Computational Regularization,We study Nystrm type subsampling approaches  to large   scale  kernel methods, and  prove   learning bounds in the  statistical learning setting,  where random sampling and high probability estimates are considered.   In particular, we prove that these approaches  can achieve optimal learning bounds, provided the subsampling level is suitably chosen. These results suggest a simple  incremental variant of Nystrm kernel ridge regression, where the subsampling level  controls at the same time  regularization and computations.  Extensive experimental analysis shows that the considered approach achieves state of the art performances on benchmark large scale datasets. 
Predtron: A Family of Online Algorithms for General Prediction Problems,Modern prediction problems arising in multilabel learning and learning to rank pose unique challenges to the classical theory of supervised learning. These problems have large prediction and label spaces of a combinatorial nature and involve sophisticated loss functions. We offer a general framework to derive mistake driven online algorithms and associated loss bounds.  The key ingredients in our framework are a general loss function, a general vector space representation of predictions, and a notion of margin with respect to a general norm. Our general algorithm, Predtron, yields the perceptron algorithm and its variants when instantiated on classic problems such as binary classification, multiclass classification, ordinal regression, and multilabel classification.  For multilabel ranking and subset ranking, we derive novel algorithms, notions of margins, and loss bounds. A simulation study confirms the behavior predicted by our bounds and demonstrates the flexibility of the design choices in our framework.
On the Optimality of Classifier Chain for Multi-label Classification,To capture the interdependencies between labels in multi-label classification problems, classifier chain (CC)  tries to take the multiple labels of each instance into account under a deterministic high-order Markov Chain model. Since its  performance is sensitive to the choice of label order, the key issue is how to determine the optimal label order for CC. In this work, we first generalize the CC model over a random label order. Then, we present a theoretical analysis of the generalization error for the proposed generalized model. Based on our results, we propose a dynamic programming based classifier chain (CC-DP) algorithm to search the globally optimal label order for CC and a greedy classifier chain (CC-Greedy) algorithm to find a locally optimal CC. Comprehensive experiments on a number of real-world multi-label data sets from various domains demonstrate that our proposed CC-DP algorithm outperforms state-of-the-art approaches and the CC-Greedy algorithm achieves comparable prediction performance with CC-DP.
Smooth Interactive Submodular Set Cover,Interactive submodular set cover is an interactive variant of submodular set cover over a hypothesis class of submodular functions, where the goal is to satisfy all sufficiently plausible submodular functions to a target threshold using as few (cost-weighted) actions as possible. It models settings where there is uncertainty regarding which submodular function to optimize. In this paper, we propose a new extension, which we call smooth interactive submodular set cover, that allows the target threshold to vary depending on the plausibility of each hypothesis. We present the first algorithm for this more general setting with theoretical guarantees on optimality. We further show how to extend our approach to deal with real-valued functions, which yields new theoretical results for real-valued submodular set cover for both the interactive and non-interactive settings.
Tractable Bayesian Network Structure Learning with Bounded Vertex Cover Number,Both learning and inference tasks on Bayesian networks are NP-hard in general. Bounded tree-width Bayesian networks have recently received a lot of attention as a way to circumvent this complexity issue; however, while inference on bounded tree-width networks is tractable, the learning problem remains NP-hard even for tree-width~2. In this paper, we propose bounded vertex cover number Bayesian networks as an alternative to bounded tree-width networks. In particular, we show that both inference and learning can be done in polynomial time for any fixed vertex cover number bound $k$, in contrast to the general and bounded tree-width cases; on the other hand, we also show that learning problem is W[1]-hard in parameter $k$. Furthermore, we give an alternative way to learn bounded vertex cover number Bayesian networks using integer linear programming (ILP),  and show this is feasible in practice.
Secure Multi-party Differential Privacy,We study the problem of multi-party interactive function computation under differential privacy. In this setting, each party is interested in computing a function on its private bit and all the other parties' bits. The function to be computed can vary from one party to the other. Moreover, there could be a central observer who is interested in computing a separate function on all the parties' bits. Differential privacy ensures that there remains an uncertainty in any party's bit even when given the transcript of interactions and all other parties' bits. Performance at each party is measured via the accuracy of the function to be computed. We allow for an arbitrary cost metric to measure the distortion between the true and the computed function values. Our main result is the optimality of a simple non-interactive protocol: each party randomizes its bit (sufficiently) and shares the privatized version with the other parties. This optimality result is very general: it holds for all types of functions, heterogeneous privacy conditions on the parties, all types of cost metrics, and both average and worst-case (over the inputs) measures of accuracy. 
Adaptive Stochastic Optimization: From Sets to Paths,Adaptive stochastic optimization optimizes an objective function adaptively under uncertainty. Adaptive stochastic optimization plays a crucial role in planning and learning under uncertainty, but is, unfortunately, computationally intractable in general.  This paper introduces two conditions on the objective function, the marginal likelihood rate bound and the marginal likelihood bound, which enable efficient approximate solution of adaptive stochastic optimization. Several interesting classes of functions satisfy these conditions naturally, e.g., the version space reduction function for hypothesis learning.  We describe Recursive Adaptive Coverage (RAC),  a new adaptive stochastic optimization algorithm that exploits these conditions, and apply it to two planning tasks under uncertainty. In constrast to the earlier submodular optimization approach, our algorithm applies to adaptive stochastic optimization algorithm over both sets and paths. 
Learning structured densities via infinite dimensional exponential families,Learning the structure of a probabilistic graphical models is a well studied problem in the machine learning community due to its importance in many applications. Current approaches are mainly focused on learning the structure under restrictive parametric assumptions, which limits the applicability of these methods. In this paper, we study the problem of estimating the structure of a probabilistic graphical model without assuming a particular parametric model. We consider probabilities that are members of an infinite dimensional exponential family, which is parametrized by a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) H and its kernel $k$. One difficulty in learning nonparametric densities is evaluation of the normalizing constant. In order to avoid this issue, our procedure minimizes the penalized score matching objective. We show how to efficiently minimize the proposed objective using existing group lasso solvers. Furthermore, we prove that our procedure recovers the graph structure with high-probability under mild conditions. Simulation studies illustrate ability of our procedure to recover the true graph structure without the knowledge of the data generating process. 
Lifelong Learning with Non-i.i.d. Tasks,In this work we aim at extending theoretical foundations of lifelong learning. Previous work analyzing this scenario is based on the assumption that the tasks are sampled i.i.d. from a task environment or limited to strongly constrained data distributions. Instead we study two scenarios when lifelong learning is possible, even though the observed tasks do not form an i.i.d. sample: first, when they are sampled from the same environment, but possibly with dependencies, and second, when the task environment is allowed to change over time. In the first case we prove a PAC-Bayesian theorem, which can be seen as a direct generalization of the analogous previous result for the i.i.d. case. For the second scenario we propose to learn an inductive bias in form of a transfer procedure. We present a generalization bound and show on a toy example how it can be used to identify a beneficial transfer algorithm.
Learning with Symmetric Label Noise: The Importance of Being Unhinged,Convex potential minimisation is the de facto approach to binary classification. However, Long and Servedio [2008] proved that under symmetric label noise (SLN), minimisation of any convex potential over a linear function class can result in classification performance equivalent to random guessing. This ostensibly shows that convex losses are not SLN-robust. In this paper, we propose a convex, classification-calibrated loss and prove that it is SLN-robust. The loss avoids the Long and Servedio [2008] result by virtue of being negatively unbounded. The loss is a modification of the hinge loss, where one does not clamp at zero; hence, we call it the unhinged loss. We show that the optimal unhinged solution is equivalent to that of a strongly regularised SVM, and is the limiting solution for any convex potential; this implies that strong l2 regularisation makes most standard learners SLN-robust. Experiments confirm the unhinged loss SLN-robustness.
Algorithms with Logarithmic or Sublinear Regret for  Constrained Contextual Bandits,We study contextual bandits with budget and time constraints under discrete contexts, referred to as constrained contextual bandits. The time and budget constraints significantly complicate the exploration and exploitation tradeoff because they introduce complex coupling among contexts over time. To gain insight, we first study unit-cost systems with known context distribution. When the expected rewards are known, we develop an approximation of the oracle, referred to Adaptive-Linear-Programming(ALP), which achieves near-optimality and only requires the ordering of expected rewards. With these highly desirable features,  we  then combine ALP with the upper-confidence-bound (UCB) method in the general case where the expected rewards are unknown a priori. We show that the proposed UCB-ALP algorithm achieves logarithmic regret except in certain boundary cases.Further, we design algorithms and obtain similar regret analysis results for  more general systems with unknown context distribution or heterogeneous costs.  To the best of our knowledge, this is the  first work that shows how to achieve logarithmic regret in constrained contextual bandits. Moreover, this work also sheds light on the study of computationally efficient algorithms for general constrained contextual bandits.
From random walks to distances on unweighted graphs,Large unweighted directed graphs are commonly used to capture relations between entities. A fundamental problem in the analysis of such networks is to properly define the similarity or dissimilarity between any two vertices. Despite the significance of this problem, statistical characterization of the proposed metrics has been limited.We introduce and develop a class of techniques for analyzing random walks on graphs using stochastic calculus. Using these techniques we generalize results on the degeneracy of hitting times and analyze a metric based on the Laplace transformed hitting time (LTHT). The metric serves as a natural, provably well-behaved alternative to the expected hitting time. We establish a general correspondence between hitting times of the Brownian motion and analogous hitting times on the graph. We show that the LTHT is consistent with respect to the underlying metric of a geometric graph, preserves clustering tendency, and remains robust against random addition of non-geometric edges. Tests on simulated and real-world data show that the LTHT matches theoretical predictions and outperforms alternatives.
Column Selection via Adaptive Sampling,Selecting a good column (or row) subset of massive data matrices has found many applications in data analysis and machine learning. We propose a new adaptive sampling algorithm that can be used to improve any relative-error column selection algorithm.  Our algorithm delivers a tighter theoretical bound on the approximation error which we also demonstrate empirically using two well known relative-error column subset selection algorithms. Our experimental results on synthetic and real-world data show that our algorithm outperforms non-adaptive sampling as well as prior adaptive sampling approaches.
Multi-class SVMs: From Tighter Data-Dependent Generalization Bounds to Novel Algorithms,This paper studies the generalization performance of multi-class classification algorithms, for which we obtain, for the first time, a data-dependent generalization error bound with a logarithmic dependence on the class size, substantially improving the state-of-the-art linear dependence in the existing data-dependent generalization analysis. The theoretical analysis motivates us to introduce a new multi-class classification machine based on lp-norm regularization, where the parameter p controls the complexity of the corresponding bounds. We derive an efficient optimization algorithm based on Fenchel duality theory. Benchmarks on several real-world datasets show that the proposed algorithm can achieve significant accuracy gains over the state of the art.
Optimal Linear Estimation under Unknown Nonlinear Transform,Linear regression studies the problem of estimating a model parameter $\beta^* \in \R^p$, from $n$ observations $\{(y_i,x_i)\}_{i=1}^n$ from linear model $y_i = \langle \x_i,\beta^* \rangle + \epsilon_i$. We consider a significant generalization in which the relationship between $\langle x_i,\beta^* \rangle$ and $y_i$ is noisy, quantized to a single bit, potentially nonlinear, noninvertible, as well as unknown. This model is known as the single-index model in statistics, and, among other things, it represents a significant generalization of one-bit compressed sensing. We propose a novel spectral-based estimation procedure and show that we can recover $\beta^*$ in settings (i.e., classes of link function $f$) where previous algorithms fail. In general, our algorithm requires only very mild restrictions on the (unknown) functional relationship between $y_i$ and $\langle x_i,\beta^* \rangle$. We also consider the high dimensional setting where $\beta^*$ is sparse, and introduce a two-stage nonconvex framework that addresses estimation challenges in high dimensional regimes where $p \gg n$. For a broad class of link functions between $\langle x_i,\beta^* \rangle$ and $y_i$, we establish minimax lower bounds that demonstrate the optimality of our estimators in both the classical and high dimensional regimes.
Risk-Sensitive and Robust Decision-Making: a CVaR Optimization Approach,In this paper we address the problem of decision making within a Markov decision process (MDP) framework where risk and modeling errors are taken into account. Our approach is to  minimize a risk-sensitive conditional-value-at-risk (CVaR) objective, as opposed to a standard risk-neutral expectation. We refer to such problem as CVaR MDP. Our first contribution is to show that a CVaR objective, besides capturing risk sensitivity, has an alternative interpretation as expected cost under worst-case modeling errors, for a given error budget. This result, which is of independent interest,  motivates CVaR MDPs as a unifying framework for risk-sensitive and robust decision making. Our second contribution is to present a value-iteration algorithm for CVaR MDPs, and analyze its convergence rate. To our knowledge, this is the first solution algorithm for CVaR MDPs that enjoys error guarantees. Finally, we present results from numerical experiments that corroborate our theoretical findings and show the practicality of our approach.
Learning with Incremental Iterative Regularization,Within a statistical learning setting,  we propose and study an iterative regularization algorithm for least squares defined by  an incremental gradient method.   In particular, we show that, if all other parameters are fixed a priori, the number of passes over the data (epochs) acts as a regularization parameter, and  prove strong universal consistency, i.e.  almost sure convergence of the risk, as well as  sharp finite sample bounds for the iterates. Our  results are a step towards understanding the effect of multiple epochs in  stochastic gradient techniques in machine learning and rely  on  integrating  statistical and optimizationresults.
No-Regret Learning in Bayesian Games,Recent price-of-anarchy analyses of games of complete information suggest that coarse correlated equilibria, which characterize outcomes resulting from no-regret learning dynamics, have near-optimal welfare. This work provides two main technical results that lift this conclusion to games of incomplete information, a.k.a., Bayesian games. First, near-optimal welfare in Bayesian games follows directly from the smoothness-based proof of near-optimal welfare in the same game when the private information is public.  Second, no-regret learning dynamics converge to Bayesian coarse correlated equilibrium in these incomplete information games. These results are enabled by interpretation of a Bayesian game as a stochastic game of complete information.
Sparse and Low-Rank Tensor Decomposition,Motivated by the problem of robust factorization of a low-rank tensor, we study the question of sparse and low-rank tensor decomposition. We present an efficient computational algorithm that modifies Leurgans' algoirthm for tensor factorization. Our method relies on a reduction of the problem to sparse and low-rank matrix decomposition via the notion of tensor contraction. We use well-understood convex techniques for solving the reduced matrix sub-problem which then allows us to perform the full decomposition of the tensor. We delineate situations where the problem is recoverable and provide theoretical guarantees for our algorithm. We validate our algorithm with numerical experiments.
Analysis of Robust PCA via Local Incoherence,We investigate the robust PCA problem of decomposing an observed matrix into the sum of a low-rank and a sparse error matrices via convex programming Principal Component Pursuit (PCP). In contrast to previous studies that assume the support of the error matrix is generated by uniform Bernoulli sampling, we allow non-uniform sampling, i.e., entries of the low-rank matrix are corrupted by errors with unequal probabilities. We characterize conditions on error corruption of each individual entry based on the local incoherence of the low-rank matrix, under which correct matrix decomposition by PCP is guaranteed. Such a refined analysis of robust PCA captures how robust each entry of the low rank matrix combats error corruption. In order to deal with non-uniform error corruption, our technical proof introduces a new weighted norm and develops/exploits the concentration properties that such a norm satisfies.
Algorithmic Stability and Uniform Generalization,One of the central questions in statistical learning theory is to determine the conditions under which agents can learn from experience. This includes the necessary and sufficient conditions for generalization from a given finite training set to new observations. In this paper, we prove that algorithmic stability in the inference process is equivalent to uniform generalization across all parametric loss functions. We provide various interpretations of this result.  For instance,  a relationship is proved between stability and data processing, which reveals that algorithmic stability can be improved by post-processing the inferred hypothesis or by augmenting training examples with artificial noise prior to learning. In addition, we establish a relationship between algorithmic stability and the size of the observation space, which provides a formal justification for dimensionality reduction methods. Finally, we connect algorithmic stability to the size of the hypothesis space, which recovers the classical PAC result that the size (complexity) of the hypothesis space should be controlled in order to improve algorithmic stability and improve generalization.
Mixing Time Estimation in Reversible Markov Chains from a Single Sample Path,This article provides the first procedure for computing a fully data-dependent interval that traps the mixing time $t_{mix}$ of a finite reversible ergodic Markov chain at a prescribed confidence level.  The interval is computed from a single finite-length sample path from the Markov chain, and does not require the knowledge of any parameters of the chain.  This stands in contrast to previous approaches, which either only provide point estimates, or require a reset mechanism, or additional prior knowledge.  The interval is constructed around the relaxation time $t_{relax}$, which is strongly related to the mixing time, and the width of the interval converges to zero roughly at a $\sqrt{n}$ rate, where $n$ is the length of the sample path.  Upper and lower bounds are given on the number of samples required to achieve constant-factor multiplicative accuracy.  The lower bounds indicate that, unless further restrictions are placed on the chain, no procedure can achieve this accuracy level before seeing each state at least $\Omega(t_{relax})$ times on the average.  Finally, future directions of research are identified.
Efficient Compressive Phase Retrieval with Constrained Sensing Vectors,We propose a robust and efficient approach to the problem of compressive phase retrieval in which the goal is to reconstruct a sparse vector from the magnitude of a number of its linear measurements. The proposed framework relies on constrained sensing vectors and a two-stage reconstruction method that consists of two standard convex programs that are solved sequentially.In recent years, various methods are proposed for compressive phase retrieval, but they have suboptimal sample complexity or lack robustness guarantees. The main obstacle has been that there is no straightforward convex relaxations for the type of structure in the target. Given a set of underdetermined measurements, there is a standard framework for recovering a sparse matrix, and a standard framework for recovering a low-rank matrix. However, a general, efficient method for recovering a jointly sparse and low-rank matrix has remained elusive.Deviating from the models with generic measurements, in this paper we show that if the sensing vectors are chosen at random from an incoherent subspace, then the low-rank and sparse structures of the target signal can be effectively decoupled. We show that a recovery algorithm that consists of a low-rank recovery stage followed by a sparse recovery stage will produce an accurate estimate of the target when the number of measurements is $\mathsf{O}(k\,\log\frac{d}{k})$, where $k$ and $d$ denote the sparsity level and the dimension of the input signal. We also evaluate the algorithm through numerical simulation.
Unified View of Matrix Completion under General Structural Constraints,Matrix completion problems have been widely studied under special low dimensional structures such as low rank or structure induced by decomposable norms. In this paper, we present a unified analysis of matrix completion under general low-dimensional structural constraints induced by {\em any} norm regularization.We consider two estimators for the general problem of structured matrix completion, and provide unified upper bounds on the sample complexity and the estimation error. Our analysis relies on generic chaining, and we establish two intermediate results of independent interest: (a) in characterizing the size or complexity of low dimensional subsets in high dimensional ambient space, a certain \textit{\modified}~complexity measure encountered in the analysis of matrix completion problems is characterized in terms of a well understood complexity measure of Gaussian widths, and (b) it is shown that a form of restricted strong convexity holds for matrix completion problems under general norm regularization. Further, we provide several non-trivial examples of structures included in our framework, notably including the recently proposed spectral $k$-support norm.
Copeland Dueling Bandits,A version of the dueling bandit problem is addressed in which a Condorcet winner may not exist. Two algorithms are proposed that instead seek to minimize regret with respect to the Copeland winner, which, unlike the Condorcet winner, is guaranteed to exist. The first, Copeland Confidence Bound (CCB), is designed for small numbers of arms, while the second, Scalable Copeland Bandits (SCB), works better for large-scale problems. We provide theoretical results bounding the regret accumulated by CCB and SCB, both substantially improving existing results.  Such existing results either offer bounds of the form O(K log T) but require restrictive assumptions, or offer bounds of the form O(K^2 log T) without requiring such assumptions.  Our results offer the best of both worlds: O(K log T) bounds without restrictive assumptions.
Regret Lower Bound and Optimal Algorithm in Finite Stochastic Partial Monitoring,Partial monitoring is a general model for sequential learning with limited feedback formalized as a game between two players. In this game, the learner chooses an action and at the same time the opponent chooses an outcome, then the learner suffers a loss and receives a feedback signal. The goal of the learner is to minimize the total loss. In this paper, we study partial monitoring with finite actions and stochastic outcomes. We derive a logarithmic distribution-dependent regret lower bound that defines the hardness of the problem. Inspired by the DMED algorithm (Honda and Takemura, 2010) for the multi-armed bandit problem, we propose PM-DMED, an algorithm that minimizes the distribution-dependent regret. PM-DMED significantly outperforms state-of-the-art algorithms in numerical experiments. To show the optimality of PM-DMED with respect to the regret bound, we slightly modify the algorithm by introducing a hinge function (PM-DMED-Hinge). Then, we derive an asymptotical optimal regret upper bound of PM-DMED-Hinge that matches the lower bound.
Online Learning for Adversaries with Memory: Price of Past Mistakes,The framework of online learning with memory naturally captures learning problems with temporal effects, and was previously studied for the experts setting. In this work we extend the notion of learning with memory to the general Online Convex Optimization (OCO) framework, and present two algorithms that attain low regret. The first algorithm applies to Lipschitz continuous loss functions, obtaining optimal regret bounds for both convex and strongly convex losses. The second algorithm attains the optimal regret bounds and applies more broadly to convex losses without requiring Lipschitz continuity, yet is more complicated to implement. We complement the theoretic results with two applications: statistical arbitrage in finance, and multi-step ahead prediction in statistics.
Revenue Optimization against Strategic Buyers,We present a revenue optimization algorithm for posted-price auctions when facing a buyer with random valuations who seeks to optimize his $\gamma$-discounted surplus. To analyze this problem, we introduce the notion of  epsilon-strategic buyer, a more natural notion of strategic behavior than what has been used in the past.  We improve upon the previous state-of-the-art and achieve an optimal regret bound in  $O\Big( \log T + \frac{1}{\log(1/\gamma)} \Big)$ when the seller can offer prices from a finite set $\cP$ and provide a regret bound in  $\widetilde O \Big(\sqrt{T} + \frac{T^{1/4}}{\log(1/\gamma)} \Big)$ when the buyer is offered prices from the interval $[0, 1]$.
On Top-k Selection in Multi-Armed Bandits and Hidden Bipartite Graphs,This paper discusses how to efficiently choose from $n$ unknowndistributions the $k$ ones whose means are the greatest by a certainmetric, up to a small relative error. We study the topic under twostandard settings---multi-armed bandits and hidden bipartitegraphs---which differ in the nature of the input distributions. In theformer setting, each distribution can be sampled (in the i.i.d.manner) an arbitrary number of times, whereas in the latter, eachdistribution is defined on a population of a finite size $m$ (andhence, is fully revealed after $m$ samples). For both settings, weprove lower bounds on the total number of samples needed, and proposeoptimal algorithms whose sample complexities match those lower bounds.
Improved Iteration Complexity Bounds of Cyclic Block Coordinate Descent for Convex Problems,The iteration complexity of the block-coordinate descent (BCD) type algorithm has been under extensive investigation. It was recently shown that for convex problems the classical cyclic BCGD (block coordinate gradient descent) achieves an O(1/r) complexity (r is the number of passes of all blocks). However, such bounds are at least linearly depend on $K$ (the number of variable blocks), and are at least $K$ times worse than those of the gradient descent (GD) and proximal gradient (PG) methods.In this paper, we close such theoretical performance gap between cyclic BCD and GD/PG. First we show that for a family of quadratic nonsmooth problems, the complexity bounds for cyclic Block Coordinate Proximal Gradient (BCPG), a popular variant of BCD, can match those of the GD/PG in terms of dependency on $K$ (up to a \log^2(K) factor). Second, we establish an improved complexity bound for Coordinate Gradient Descent (CGD) for general convex problems which can match that of GD in certain scenarios. Our bounds are sharper than the known bounds as they are always at least $K$ times worse than GD. {Our analyses do not depend on the update order of block variables inside each cycle, thus our results also apply to BCD methods with random permutation (random sampling without replacement, another popular variant). 
Cornering Stationary and Restless Mixing Bandits with Remix-UCB,We study the restless bandit problem where arms are associated with stationary $\varphi$-mixing processes and where rewards are therefore dependent: the question that arises from this setting is that of carefully recovering some independence by `ignoring' the values of some rewards. As we shall see, the bandit problem we tackle requires us to address the exploration/exploitation/independence trade-off, which we do by considering the idea of a {\em waiting arm} in the new Remix-UCB algorithm, a generalization of Improved-UCB for the problem at hand, that we introduce. We provide a regret analysis for this bandit strategy; two noticeable features of Remix-UCB are that i) it reduces to the regular Improved-UCB when the $\varphi$-mixing coefficients are all $0$, i.e. when the i.i.d scenario is recovered, and ii) when $\varphi(n)=O(n^{-\alpha})$, it is able to ensure a controlled regret of order $\Ot\left(  \Delta_*^{(\alpha- 2)/\alpha} \log^{1/\alpha} T\right),$ where $\Delta_*$ encodes the distance between the best arm and the best suboptimal arm, even in the case when $\alpha<1$, i.e. the case when the $\varphi$-mixing coefficients {\em are not} summable.
Fighting Bandits with a New Kind of Smoothness,We focus on the adversarial multi-armed bandit problem. The EXP3 algorithm of Auer et al. (2003) was shown to have a regret bound of $O(\sqrt{T N \log N})$, where $T$ is the time horizon and $N$ is the number of available actions (arms). More recently, Audibert and Bubeck (2009) improved the bound by a logarithmic factor via an entirely different method. In the present work, we provide a new set of analysis tools, using the notion of convex smoothing, to provide several novel algorithms with optimal guarantees. First we show that regularization via the Tsallis entropy matches the minimax rate of Audibert and Bubeck (2009) with an even tighter constant; it also fully generalizes EXP3. Second we show that a wide class of perturbation methods lead to near-optimal bandit algorithms as long as a simple condition on the perturbation distribution $\mathcal{D}$ is met: one needs that the hazard function of $\mathcal{D}$ remain bounded. The Gumbel, Weibull, Frechet, Pareto, and Gamma distributions all satisfy this key property; interestingly, the Gaussian and Uniform distributions do not.
Asynchronous stochastic convex optimization: the noise is in the noise and SGD don't care,We show that asymptotically, completely asynchronous stochastic gradient procedures achieve optimal (even to constant factors) convergence rates for the solution of convex optimization problems under nearly the same conditions required for asymptotic optimality of standard stochastic gradient procedures. Roughly, the noise inherent to the stochastic approximation scheme dominates any noise from asynchrony. We also give empirical evidence demonstrating the strong performance of asynchronous, parallel stochastic optimization schemes, demonstrating that the robustness inherent to stochastic approximation problems allows substantially faster parallel and asynchronous solution methods. In short, we show that for many stochastic approximation problems, as Freddie Mercury sings in Queen's \emph{Bohemian Rhapsody}, ``Nothing really matters.''
The Pareto Regret Frontier for Bandits,Given a multi-armed bandit problem it may be desirable to achieve a smaller-than-usual worst-case regret for some special actions. I show that the price for such unbalanced worst-case regret guarantees is rather high. Specifically, if an algorithm enjoys a worst-case regret of B with respect to some action, then there must exist another action for which the worst-case regret is at least (nK/B), where n is the horizon and K the number of actions. I also give upper bounds in both the stochastic and adversarial settings showing that this result cannot be improved. For the stochastic case the pareto regret frontier is characterised exactly up to constant factors.
Online Learning with Gaussian Payoffs and Side Observations,We consider a sequential learning problem with Gaussian payoffs and side information: after selecting an action $i$, the learner receives information about the payoff of every action $j$ in the form of Gaussian observations whose mean is the same as the mean payoff, but the variance depends on the pair $(i,j)$ (and may be infinite). The setup allows a more refined information transfer from one action to another than previous partial monitoring setups, including the recently introduced graph-structured feedback case. For the first time in the literature, we provide non-asymptotic problem-dependent lower bounds on the regret of any algorithm, which recover existing asymptotic problem-dependent lower bounds and finite-time minimax lower bounds available in the literature. We also provide algorithms that achieve the problem-dependent lower bound (up to some universal constant factor) or the minimax lower bounds (up to  logarithmic factors).
Fast Rates for Exp-concave Empirical Risk Minimization,We consider Empirical Risk Minimization (ERM) in the context of stochastic optimization with exp-concave and smooth losses---a general optimization framework that captures several important learning problems including linear and logistic regression, learning SVMs with the squared hinge-loss, portfolio selection and more. In this setting, we establish the first evidence that ERM is able to attain fast generalization rates, and show that the expected loss of the ERM solution in $d$ dimensions converges to the optimal expected loss in a rate of $d/n$. This rate matches existing lower bounds up to constants and improves by a $\log{n}$ factor upon the state-of-the-art, which is only known to be attained by an online-to-batch conversion of computationally expensive online algorithms.
Adaptive Low-Complexity Sequential Inference for Dirichlet Process Mixture Models,We develop a sequential low-complexity inference procedure for Dirichlet process mixtures of Gaussians for online clustering and parameter estimation when the number of clusters are unknown a-priori. We present an easily computable, closed form parametric expression for the conditional likelihood, in which hyperparameters are recursively updated as a function of the streaming data assuming conjugate priors. Motivated by large-sample asymptotics, we propose a noveladaptive low-complexity design for the Dirichlet process concentration parameter and show that the number of classes grow at most at a logarithmic rate. We further prove that in the large-sample limit, the conditional likelihood and datapredictive distribution become asymptotically Gaussian. We demonstrate through experiments on synthetic and real data sets that our approach is superior to otheronline state-of-the-art methods.
Improved Dropout for Shallow and Deep Learning,Dropout has been witnessed with great success in training deep neural networks by independently   zeroing  out the outputs of neurons at random. It has also received a surge of interest for shallow learning, e.g., logistic regression.  However, the independent  sampling for dropout could be suboptimal for the sake of convergence. In this paper, we propose to use multinomial  sampling for dropout, i.e., sampling features or neurons according to  a multinomial distribution with different probabilities for different features/neurons. To exhibit the optimal dropout probabilities, we analyze the shallow learning with multinomial  dropout and establish the risk bound for stochastic optimization. By minimizing a sampling dependent factor in the risk bound, we obtain a distribution-dependent dropout with sampling probabilities dependent on the second order statistics of the data distribution. To tackle the issue of evolving  distribution of neurons in deep learning, we propose an efficient adaptive  dropout (named \textbf{evolutional dropout}) that computes the sampling probabilities on-the-fly from a mini-batch of examples. Empirical studies on several benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed dropouts achieve  not only much faster convergence and  but also a smaller testing error than the standard dropout.  For example, on the CIFAR-100 data, the evolutional  dropout achieves relative improvements  over 10\% on the prediction performance and over 50\% on the convergence speed compared to the standard dropout.
Communication-Optimal Distributed Clustering,Clustering large datasets is a fundamental problem with a number of applications in machine learning. Data is often collected on different sites and clustering needs to be performed in a distributed manner with low communication. We would like the quality of the clustering in the distributed setting to match that in the centralized setting for which all the data resides on a single site. In this work, we study both graph and geometric clustering problems in two distributed models: (1) a point-to-point model, and (2) a model with a broadcast channel. We give protocols in both models which we show are nearly optimal by proving almost matching communication lower bounds. Our work highlights the surprising power of a broadcast channel for clustering problems; roughly speaking, to cluster n points or n vertices in a graph distributed across s servers, for a worst-case partitioning the communication complexity in a point-to-point model is n*s, while in the broadcast model it is n + s. We implement our algorithms and demonstrate this phenomenon on real life datasets, showing that our algorithms are also very efficient in practice.
On Robustness of Kernel Clustering,Clustering is an important unsupervised learning problem in machine learning and statistics. Among many existing algorithms, kernel \km has drawn much research attention due to its ability to find non-linear cluster boundaries and its inherent simplicity. There are two main approaches for kernel k-means: SVD of the kernel matrix and convex relaxations. Despite the attention kernel clustering has received both from theoretical and applied quarters, not much is known about robustness of the methods. In this paper we first introduce a semidefinite programming relaxation for the kernel clustering problem, then prove that under a suitable model specification, both K-SVD and SDP approaches are consistent in the limit, albeit SDP is strongly consistent, i.e. achieves exact recovery, whereas K-SVD is weakly consistent, i.e. the fraction of misclassified nodes vanish. Also the error bounds suggest that SDP is more resilient towards outliers, which we also demonstrate with experiments.
Combinatorial semi-bandit with known covariance,The combinatorial stochastic semi-bandit problem is an extension of the classical multi-armed bandit problem in which an algorithm pulls more than one arm at each stage and the rewards of all pulled arms are revealed. One difference with the single arm variant is that the dependency structure of the arms is crucial. Previous works on this setting either used a worst-case approach or imposed independence of the arms. We introduce a way to quantify the dependency structure of the problem and design an algorithm that adapts to it. The algorithm is based on linear regression and the analysis uses techniques from the linear bandit literature. By comparing its performance to a new lower bound, we prove that it is optimal, up to a poly-logarithmic factor in the number of arms pulled.
A posteriori error bounds for joint matrix decomposition problems,Joint matrix triangularization is often used for estimating the joint eigenstructure of a set M of matrices, with applications in signal processing and machine learning. We consider the problem of approximate joint matrix triangularization when the matrices in M are jointly diagonalizable and real, but we only observe a set M' of noise perturbed versions of the matrices in M. Our main result is a first-order upper bound on the distance between any approximate joint triangularizer of the matrices in M' and any exact joint triangularizer of the matrices in M. The bound depends only on the observable matrices in M' and the noise level. In particular, it does not depend on optimization specific properties of the triangularizer, such as its proximity to critical points, that are typical of existing bounds in the literature. To our knowledge, this is the first a posteriori bound for joint matrix decomposition. We demonstrate the bound on synthetic data for which the ground truth is known.
Object based Scene Representations using Fisher Scores of Local Subspace Projections,Several works have shown that deep CNN classifiers can be easily transferred across datasets, e.g. the transfer of a CNN trained to recognize objects on ImageNET to an object detector on Pascal VOC. Less clear, however, is the ability of CNNs to transfer knowledge across tasks. A common example of such transfer is the problem of scene classification that should leverage localized object detections to recognize holistic visual concepts. While this problem is currently addressed with Fisher vector representations, these are now shown ineffective for the high-dimensional and highly non-linear features extracted by modern CNNs. It is argued that this is mostly due to the reliance on a model, the Gaussian mixture of diagonal covariances, which has a very limited ability to capture the second order statistics of CNN features. This problem is addressed by the adoption of a better model, the mixture of factor analyzers (MFA), which approximates the non-linear data manifold by a collection of local subspaces. The Fisher score with respect to the MFA (MFA-FS) is derived and proposed as an image representation for holistic image classifiers. Extensive experiments show that the MFA-FS has state of the art performance for object-to-scene transfer and this transfer actually  outperforms the training of a scene CNN from a large scene dataset. The two representations are also shown to be complementary, in the sense that their combination outperforms each of the representations by itself. When combined, they produce a state of the art scene classifier.
MoCap-guided Data Augmentation for 3D Pose Estimation in the Wild,This paper addresses the problem of 3D human pose estimation in the wild. A significant challenge is the lack of training data, i.e., 2D images of humans annotated with 3D poses. Such data is necessary to train state-of-the-art CNN architectures. Here, we propose a solution to generate a large set of photorealistic synthetic images of humans with 3D pose annotations. We introduce an image-based synthesis engine that artificially augments a dataset of real images with 2D human pose annotations using 3D Motion Capture (MoCap) data. Given a candidate 3D pose our algorithm selects for each joint an image whose 2D pose locally matches the projected 3D pose. The selected images are then combined to generate a new synthetic image by stitching local image patches in a kinematically constrained manner. The resulting images are used to train an end-to-end CNN for full-body 3D pose estimation. We cluster the training data into a large number of pose classes and tackle pose estimation as a K-way classification problem. Such an approach is viable only with large training sets such as ours. Our method outperforms the state of the art in terms of 3D pose estimation in controlled environments (Human3.6M) and shows promising results for in-the-wild images (LSP). This demonstrates that CNNs trained on artificial images generalize well to real images.
Regret of Queueing Bandits,We consider a variant of the multiarmed bandit problem where jobs queue for service, and service rates of different servers may be unknown.  We study algorithms that minimize queue-regret: the (expected) difference between the queue-lengths obtained by the algorithm, and those obtained by a genie-aided matching algorithm that knows exact service rates.  A naive view of this problem would suggest that queue-regret should grow logarithmically: since queue-regret cannot be larger than classical regret, results for the standard MAB problem give algorithms that ensure queue-regret increases no more than logarithmically in time. Our paper shows surprisingly more complex behavior.  In particular, the naive intuition is correct as long as the bandit algorithm's queues have relatively long regenerative cycles: in this case queue-regret is similar to cumulative regret, and scales (essentially) logarithmically.  However, we show that this "early stage" of the queueing bandit eventually gives way to a "late stage", where the optimal queue-regret scaling is O(1/t).  We demonstrate an algorithm that (order-wise) achieves this asymptotic queue-regret, and also exhibits close to optimal switching time from the early stage to the late stage.
Efficient Nonparametric Smoothness Estimation,Sobolev quantities (norms, inner products, and distances) of probability density functions are important in the theory of nonparametric statistics, but have rarely been used in practice, partly due to a lack of practical estimators. They also include, as special cases, L^2 quantities which are used in many applications. We propose and analyze a family of estimators for Sobolev quantities of unknown probability density functions. We bound the finite-sample bias and variance of our estimators, finding that they are generally minimax rate-optimal. Our estimators are significantly more computationally tractable than previous estimators, and exhibit a statistical/computational trade-off allowing them to adapt to computational constraints. We also draw theoretical connections to recent work on fast two-sample testing and empirically validate our estimators on synthetic data.
Completely random measures for modelling block-structured sparse networks,Statistical methods for network data often parameterize the edge-probability by attributing latent traits such as block structure to the vertices and assume exchangeability in the sense of the Aldous-Hoover representation theorem. These assumptions are however incompatible with traits found in real-world networks such as a power-law degree-distribution. Recently, Caron & Fox (2014) proposed the use of a different notion of exchangeability after Kallenberg (2005) and obtained a network model which permits edge-inhomogeneity, such as a power-law degree-distribution whilst retaining desirable statistical properties. However, this model does not capture latent vertex traits such as block-structure. In this work we re-introduce the use of block-structure for network models obeying Kallenbergs notion of exchangeability and thereby obtain a collapsed model which both admits the inference of block-structure and edge inhomogeneity. We derive a simple expression for the likelihood and an efficient sampling method. The obtained model is not significantly more difficult to implement than existing approaches to block-modelling and performs well on real network datasets.
DISCO Nets : DISsimilarity COefficients Networks,We present a new type of probabilistic model which we call DISsimilarity COefficient Networks (DISCO Nets). DISCO Nets allow us to efficiently sample from a posterior distribution parametrised by a neural network. During training, DISCO Nets are learned by minimising the dissimilarity coefficient between the true distribution and the estimated distribution. This allows us to tailor the training to the loss related to the task at hand. We empirically show that (i) by modeling uncertainty on the output value, DISCO Nets outperform equivalent non-probabilistic predictive networks and (ii) DISCO Nets accurately model the uncertainty of the output, outperforming existing probabilistic models based on deep neural networks.
An Architecture for Deep, Hierarchical Generative Models,We present an architecture which lets us train deep, directed generative models with many layers of latent variables. We include deterministic paths between all latent variables and the generated output, and provide a richer set of connections between computations for inference and generation, which enables more effective communication of information throughout the model during training. To improve performance on natural images, we incorporate a lightweight autoregressive model in the reconstruction distribution. These techniques permit end-to-end training of models with 10+ layers of latent variables. Experiments show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on standard image modelling benchmarks, can expose latent class structure in the absence of label information, and can provide convincing imputations of occluded regions in natural images.
A Multi-Batch L-BFGS Method for Machine Learning,The question of how to parallelize the stochastic gradient descent (SGD) method has received much attention in the literature. In this paper, we focus instead on batch methods that use a sizeable fraction of the training set at each iteration to facilitate parallelism, and that employ second-order information. In order to improve the learning process, we follow a multi-batch approach in which the batch changes at each iteration. This can cause difficulties because L-BFGS employs gradient differences to update the Hessian approximations, and when these gradients are computed using different data points the process can be unstable. This paper shows how to perform stable quasi-Newton updating in the multi-batch setting, illustrates the behavior of the algorithm in a distributed computing platform, and studies its convergence properties for both the convex and nonconvex cases.
Higher-Order Factorization Machines,Factorization machines (FMs) are a supervised learning approach that can use second-order feature combinations even when the data is very high-dimensional. Unfortunately, despite increasing interest in FMs, there exists to date no efficient training algorithm for higher-order FMs (HOFMs). In this paper, we present the first generic yet efficient algorithms for training arbitrary-order HOFMs. We also present new variants of HOFMs with shared parameters, which greatly reduce model size and prediction times while maintaining similar accuracy.  We demonstrate the proposed approaches on four different link prediction tasks.
A Bio-inspired Redundant Sensing Architecture,Sensing is the process of deriving signals from the environment that allows artificial systems to interact with the physical world. The Shannon theorem specifies the maximum rate at which information can be acquired. However, this upper bound is hard to achieve in many man-made systems. The biological visual systems, on the other hand, have highly efficient signal representation and processing mechanisms that allow precise sensing. In this work, we argue that redundancy is one of the critical characteristics for such superior performance. We show architectural advantages by utilizing redundant sensing, including correction of mismatch error and significant precision enhancement. For a proof-of-concept demonstration, we have designed a heuristic-based analog-to-digital converter - a zero-dimensional quantizer. Through Monte Carlo simulation with the error probabilistic distribution as a priori, the performance approaching the Shannon limit is feasible. In actual measurements without knowing the error distribution, we observe at least 2-bit extra precision. The results may also help explain biological processes including the dominance of binocular vision, the functional roles of the fixational eye movements, and the structural mechanisms allowing hyperacuity.
Learning Supervised PageRank with Gradient-Based and Gradient-Free Optimization Methods,In this paper, we consider a non-convex loss-minimization problem of learning Supervised PageRank models, which can account for features of nodes and edges. We propose gradient-based and random gradient-free methods to solve this problem. Our algorithms are based on the concept of an inexact oracle and unlike the state-of-the-art gradient-based method we manage to provide theoretically the convergence rate guarantees for both of them. Finally, we compare the performance of the proposed optimization methods with the state of the art applied to a ranking task.
Linear Relaxations for Finding Diverse Elements in Metric Spaces,Choosing a diverse subset of a large collection of points in a metric space is a fundamental problem, with applications in feature selection, recommender systems, web search, data summarization, etc. Various notions of diversity have been proposed, tailored to different applications. The general algorithmic goal is to find a subset of points that maximize diversity, while obeying a cardinality (or more generally, matroid) constraint.  The goal of this paper is to develop a novel linear programming (LP) framework that allows us to design approximation algorithms for such problems. We study an objective known as {\em sum-min} diversity, which is known to be effective in many applications, and give the first constant factor approximation algorithm. Our LP framework allows us to easily incorporate additional constraints, as well as secondary objectives. We also prove a hardness result for two natural diversity objectives, under the  so-called {\em planted clique} assumption. Finally, we study the empirical performance of our algorithm on several standard datasets. We first study the approximation quality of the algorithm by comparing with the LP objective. Then, we compare the quality of the solutions produced by our method with other popular diversity maximization algorithms.
Stochastic Optimization for Large-scale Optimal Transport,Optimal transport (OT) defines a powerful framework to compare probability distributions in a geometrically faithful way. However, the practical impact of OT is still limited because of its computational burden. We propose a new class of stochastic optimization algorithms to cope with large-scale problems routinely encountered in machine learning applications. These methods are able to manipulate arbitrary distributions (either discrete or continuous) by simply requiring to be able to draw samples from them, which is the typical setup in high-dimensional learning problems. This alleviates the need to discretize these densities, while giving access to provably convergent methods that output the correct distance without discretization error. These algorithms rely on two main ideas: (a) the dual OT problem can be re-cast as the maximization of an expectation; (b) entropic regularization of the primal OT problem results in a smooth dual optimization optimization which can be addressed with algorithms that have a provably faster convergence. We instantiate these ideas in three different computational setups: (i) when comparing a discrete distribution to another, we show that incremental stochastic optimization schemes can beat the current state of the art finite dimensional OT solver (Sinkhorn's algorithm) ; (ii) when comparing a discrete distribution to a continuous density, a re-formulation (semi-discrete) of the dual program is amenable to averaged stochastic gradient descent, leading to better performance than approximately solving the problem by discretization ; (iii) when dealing with two continuous densities, we propose a stochastic gradient descent over a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS). This is currently the only known method to solve this problem, and is more efficient than discretizing beforehand the two densities. We backup these claims on a set of discrete, semi-discrete and continuous benchmark problems.
Threshold Bandits, With and Without Censored Feedback,We consider the \emph{Threshold Bandit} setting, a variant of the classical multi-armed bandit problem in which the reward on each round depends on a piece of side information known as a \emph{threshold value}. The learner selects one of $K$ actions (arms), this action generates a random sample from a fixed distribution, and the action then receives a unit payoff in the event that this sample exceeds the threshold value. We consider two versions of this problem, the \emph{uncensored} and \emph{censored} case, that determine whether the sample is always observed or only when the threshold is not met. Using new tools to understand the popular UCB algorithm, we show that the uncensored case is essentially no more difficult than the classical multi-armed bandit setting. Finally we show that the censored case exhibits more challenges, but we give guarantees in the event that the sequence of threshold values is generated optimistically.
Mistake Bounds for Binary Matrix Completion,We study the problem of completing a binary matrix in an online learning setting. On each trial we predict a matrix entry and then receive the true entry. We propose a Matrix Exponentiated Gradient algorithm [1] to solve this problem. We provide a mistake bound for the algorithm, which scales with the margin complexity [2, 3] of the underlying matrix. The bound suggests an interpretation where each row of the matrix is a prediction task over a finite set of objects, the columns. Using this we show that the algorithm makes a number of mistakes which is comparable up to a logarithmic factor to the number of mistakes made by the Kernel Perceptron with an optimal kernel in hindsight. We discuss applications of the algorithm to predicting as well as the best biclustering and to the problem of predicting the labeling of a graph without knowing the graph in advance.
SoundNet: Learning Sound Representations from Unlabeled Video,We learn rich natural sound representations by capitalizing on large amounts of unlabeled sound data collected in the wild. We leverage the natural synchronization between vision and sound to learn an acoustic representation using two-million unlabeled videos. Unlabeled video has the advantage that it can be economically acquired at massive scales, yet contains useful signals about natural sound. We propose a student-teacher training procedure which transfers discriminative visual knowledge from well established visual recognition models into the sound modality using unlabeled video as a bridge. Our sound representation yields significant performance improvements over the state-of-the-art results on standard benchmarks for acoustic scene/object classification. Visualizations suggest some high-level semantics automatically emerge in the sound network, even though it is trained without ground truth labels.
Doubly Convolutional Neural Networks,Building large models with parameter sharing accounts for most of the success of deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). In this paper, we propose doubly convolutional neural networks (DCNNs), which significantly improve the performance of CNNs by further exploring this idea. In stead of allocating a set of convolutional filters that are independently learned, a DCNN maintains groups of filters where filters within each group are translated versions of each other. Practically, a DCNN can be easily implemented by a two-step convolution procedure, which is supported by most modern deep learning libraries. We perform extensive experiments on three image classification benchmarks: CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100 and ImageNet, and show that DCNNs consistently outperform other competing architectures. We have also verified that replacing a convolutional layer with a doubly convolutional layer at any depth of a CNN can improve its performance. Moreover, various design choices of DCNNs are demonstrated, which shows that DCNN can serve the dual purpose of building more accurate models and/or reducing the memory footprint without sacrificing the accuracy.
Maximizing Influence in an Ising Network: A Mean-Field Optimal Solution,Influence maximization in social networks has typically been studied in the context of contagion models and irreversible processes. In this paper, we consider an alternate model that treats individual opinions as spins in an Ising system at dynamic equilibrium. We formalize the \textit{Ising influence maximization} problem, which has a natural physical interpretation as maximizing the magnetization given a budget of external magnetic field. Under the mean-field (MF) approximation, we present a gradient ascent algorithm that uses the susceptibility to efficiently calculate local maxima of the magnetization, and we develop a number of sufficient conditions for when the MF magnetization is concave and our algorithm converges to a global optimum. We apply our algorithm on random and real-world networks, demonstrating, remarkably, that the MF optimal external fields (i.e., the external fields which maximize the MF magnetization) exhibit a phase transition from focusing on high-degree individuals at high temperatures to focusing on low-degree individuals at low temperatures. We also establish a number of novel results about the structure of steady-states in the ferromagnetic MF Ising model on general graphs, which are of independent interest.
Learning from Rational Behavior: Predicting Solutions to Unknown Linear Programs,We define and study the problem of predicting the solution to a linear program (LP) given only partial information about its objective and constraints. This generalizes the problem of learning to predict the purchasing behavior of a rational agent who has an unknown objective function, that has been studied under the name Learning from Revealed Preferences". We give mistake bound learning algorithms in two settings: in the first, the objective of the LP is known to the learner but there is an arbitrary, fixed set of constraints which are unknown. Each example is defined by an additional known constraint and the goal of the learner is to predict the optimal solution of the LP given the union of the known and unknown constraints. This models the problem of predicting the behavior of a rational agent whose goals are known, but whose resources are unknown. In the second setting, the objective of the LP is unknown, and changing in a controlled way. The constraints of the LP may also change every day, but are known. An example is given by a set of constraints and partial information about the objective, and the task of the learner is again to predict the optimal solution of the partially known LP.
Fairness in Learning: Classic and Contextual Bandits,We introduce the study of fairness in multi-armed bandit problems. Our fairness definition demands that, given a pool of applicants, a worse applicant is never favored over a better one, despite a learning algorithms uncertainty over the true payoffs. In the classic stochastic bandits problem we provide a provably fair algorithm based on chained confidence intervals, and prove a cumulative regret bound with a cubic dependence on the number of arms. We further show that any fair algorithm must have such a dependence, providing a strong separation between fair and unfair learning that extends to the general contextual case. In the general contextual case, we prove a tight connection between fairness and the KWIK (Knows What It Knows) learning model: a KWIK algorithm for a class of functions can be transformed into a provably fair contextual bandit algorithm and vice versa. This tight connection allows us to provide a provably fair algorithm for the linear contextual bandit problem with a polynomial dependence on the dimension, and to show (for a different class of functions) a worst-case exponential gap in regret between fair and non-fair learning algorithms.
A Powerful Generative Model Using Random Weights for the Deep Image Representation,To what extent is the success of deep visualization due to the training? Could we do deep visualization using untrained, random weight networks? To address this issue, we explore new and powerful generative models for three popular deep visualization tasks using untrained, random weight convolutional neural networks. First we invert representations in feature spaces and reconstruct images from white noise inputs. The reconstruction quality is statistically higher than that of the same method applied on well trained networks with the same architecture. Next we synthesize textures using scaled correlations of representations in multiple layers and our results are almost indistinguishable with the original natural texture and the synthesized textures based on the trained network. Third, by recasting the content of an image in the style of various artworks, we create artistic images with high perceptual quality, highly competitive to the prior work of Gatys et al. on pretrained networks. To our knowledge this is the first demonstration of image representations using untrained deep neural networks. Our work provides a new and fascinating tool to study the representation of deep network architecture and sheds light on new understandings on deep visualization. It may possibly lead to a way to compare network architectures without training.
Improved Error Bounds for Tree Representations of Metric Spaces,Estimating optimal phylogenetic trees or hierarchical clustering trees from metric data is an important problem in evolutionary biology and data analysis. Intuitively, the goodness-of-fit of a metric space to a tree depends on its inherent treeness, as well as other metric properties such as intrinsic dimension. Existing algorithms for embedding metric spaces into tree metrics provide distortion bounds depending on cardinality. Because cardinality is a simple property of any set, we argue that such bounds do not fully capture the rich structure endowed by the metric. We consider an embedding of a metric space into a tree proposed by Gromov. By proving a stability result, we obtain an improved additive distortion bound depending only on the hyperbolicity and doubling dimension of the metric. We observe that Gromov's method is dual to the well-known single linkage hierarchical clustering (SLHC) method. By means of this duality, we are able to transport our results to the setting of SLHC, where such additive distortion bounds were previously unknown.
Adaptive optimal training of animal behavior,Neuroscience experiments often require training animals to perform tasks designed to elicit various sensory, cognitive, and motor behaviors. Training typically involves a series of gradual adjustments of stimulus conditions and rewards in order to bring about learning. However, training protocols are usually hand-designed, relying on a combination of intuition, guesswork, and trial-and-error, and often require weeks or months to achieve a desired level of task performance. Here we combine ideas from reinforcement learning and adaptive optimal experimental design to formulate methods for adaptive optimal training of animal behavior. Our work addresses two intriguing problems at once: first, it seeks to infer the learning rules underlying an animal's behavioral changes during training; second, it seeks to exploit these rules to select stimuli that will maximize the rate of learning toward a desired objective.  We develop and test these methods using data collected from rats during training on a two-interval sensory discrimination task.  We show that we can accurately infer the parameters of a policy-gradient-based learning algorithm that describes how the animal's internal model of the task evolves over the course of training.  We then formulate a theory for optimal training, which involves selecting sequences of stimuli that will drive the animal's internal policy toward a desired location in the parameter space. Simulations show that our method can in theory provide a substantial speedup over standard training methods. We feel these results will hold considerable theoretical and practical implications both for researchers in reinforcement learning and for experimentalists seeking to train animals.
PAC-Bayesian Theory Meets Bayesian Inference,We exhibit a strong link between frequentist PAC-Bayesian bounds and the Bayesian marginal likelihood. That is, for the negative log-likelihood loss function, we show that the minimization of PAC-Bayesian generalization bounds maximizes the Bayesian marginal likelihood. This provides an alternative explanation to the Bayesian Occam's razor criteria, under the assumption that the data is generated by an i.i.d. distribution. Moreover, as the negative log-likelihood is an unbounded loss function, we motivate and propose a PAC-Bayesian theorem tailored for the sub-gamma loss family, and we show that our approach is sound on classical Bayesian linear regression tasks.
Nearly Isometric Embedding by Relaxation,Many manifold learning algorithms aim to create embeddings with low or no distortion (i.e. isometric). If the data has intrinsic dimension d, it is often impossible to obtain an isometric embedding in d dimensions, but possible in s > d dimensions. Yet, most geometry preserving algorithms cannot do the latter. This paper proposes an embedding algorithm that overcomes this problem. The algorithm directly computes, for any data embedding Y, a distortion loss(Y), and iteratively updates Y in order to decrease it. The distortion measure we propose is based on the push-forward Riemannian metric associated with the coordinates Y. The experiments confirm the superiority of our algorithm in obtaining low distortion embeddings.
Graph Clustering: Block-models and model free results,Clustering graphs under the Stochastic Block Model (SBM) and extensions are well studied. Guarantees of correctness exist under the assumption that the data is sampled from a model. In this paper, we propose a framework, in which we obtain "correctness" guarantees without assuming the data comes from a model. The guarantees we obtain depend instead on the statistics of the data that can be checked. We also show that this framework ties in with the existing model-based framework, and that we can exploit results in model-based recovery, as well as strengthen the results existing in that area of research.
Learning Transferrable Representations for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation,Supervised learning with large scale labelled datasets and deep layered models has caused a paradigm shift in diverse areas in learning and recognition. However, this approach still suffers from generalization issues under the presence of a domain shift between the training and the test data distribution. Since unsupervised domain adaptation algorithms directly address this domain shift problem between a labelled source dataset and an unlabelled target dataset, recent papers have shown promising results by fine-tuning the networks with domain adaptation loss functions which try to align the mismatch between the training and testing data distributions.  Nevertheless, these recent deep learning based domain adaptation approaches still suffer from issues such as high sensitivity to the gradient reversal hyperparameters and overfitting during the fine-tuning stage. In this paper, we propose a unified deep learning framework where the representation, cross domain transformation, and target label inference are all jointly optimized in an end-to-end fashion for unsupervised domain adaptation. Our experiments show that the proposed method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art algorithms in both object recognition and digit classification experiments by a large margin. We will make our learned models as well as the source code available immediately upon acceptance.
Measuring Neural Net Robustness with Constraints,Despite having high accuracy, neural nets have been shown to be susceptible to adversarial examples, where a small perturbation to an input can cause it to become mislabeled. We propose metrics for measuring the robustness of a neural net and devise a novel algorithm for approximating these metrics based on an encoding of robustness as a linear program. We show how our metrics can be used to evaluate the robustness of deep neural nets with experiments on the MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets. Our algorithm generates more informative estimates of robustness metrics compared to estimates based on existing algorithms. Furthermore, we show how existing approaches to improving robustness overfit to adversarial examples generated using a specific algorithm. Finally, we show that our techniques can be used to additionally improve neural net robustness both according to the metrics that we propose, but also according to previously proposed metrics.
A forward model at Purkinje cell synapses facilitates cerebellar anticipatory control,How does our motor system solve the problem of anticipatory control in spite of a wide spectrum of response dynamics from different musculo-skeletal systems, transport delays as well as response latencies throughout the central nervous system? To a great extent, our highly-skilled motor responses are a result of a reactive feedback system, originating in the brain-stem and spinal cord, combined with a feed-forward anticipatory system, that is adaptively fine-tuned by sensory experience and originates in the cerebellum. Based on that interaction we design the counterfactual predictive control (CFPC) architecture, an anticipatory adaptive motor control scheme in which a feed-forward module, based on the cerebellum, steers an error feedback controller with counterfactual error signals. Those are signals that trigger reactions as actual errors would, but that do not code for any current of forthcoming errors. In order to determine the optimal learning strategy, we derive a novel learning rule for the feed-forward module that involves an eligibility trace and operates at the synaptic level. In particular, our eligibility trace provides a mechanism beyond co-incidence detection in that it convolves a history of prior synaptic inputs with error signals. In the context of cerebellar physiology, this solution implies that Purkinje cell synapses should generate eligibility traces using a forward model of the system being controlled. From an engineering perspective, CFPC provides a general-purpose anticipatory control architecture equipped with a learning rule that exploits the full dynamics of the closed-loop system.
Estimating Nonlinear Neural Response Functions using GP Priors and Kronecker Methods,Jointly characterizing neural responses in terms of several external variables promises novel insights into circuit function, but remains computationally prohibitive in practice. Here we use gaussian process (GP) priors and exploit recent advances in fast GP inference and learning based on Kronecker methods, to efficiently estimate multidimensional nonlinear tuning functions. Our estimator require considerably less data than traditional methods and further provides principled uncertainty estimates. We apply these tools to hippocampal recordings during open field exploration and use them to characterize the joint dependence of CA1 responses on the position of the animal and several other variables, including the animal's speed, direction of motion, and network oscillations.Our results provide an unprecedentedly detailed quantification of the tuning of hippocampal neurons. The model's generality suggests that our approach can be used to estimate neural response properties in other brain regions.
A Bayesian method for reducing bias in neural representational similarity analysis,In neuroscience, the similarity matrix of neural activity patterns in response to different sensory stimuli or under different cognitive states reflects the structure of neural representational space. Existing methods derive point estimations of neural activity patterns from noisy neural imaging data, and the similarity is calculated from these point estimations. We show that this approach translates structured noise from estimated patterns into spurious bias structure in the resulting similarity matrix, which is especially severe when signal-to-noise ratio is low and experimental conditions cannot be fully randomized in a cognitive task. We propose an alternative Bayesian framework for computing representational similarity in which we treat the covariance structure of neural activity patterns as a hyper-parameter in a generative model of the neural data, and directly estimate this covariance structure from imaging data while marginalizing over the unknown activity patterns. Converting the estimated covariance structure into a correlation matrix offers a much less biased estimate of neural representational similarity. Our method can also simultaneously estimate a signal-to-noise map that informs where the learned representational structure is supported more strongly, and the learned covariance matrix can be used as a structured prior to constrain Bayesian estimation of neural activity patterns. Our code is freely available in Brainiak (https://github.com/IntelPNI/brainiak), a python toolkit for brain imaging analysis.
Learning to Communicate with Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning,We consider the problem of multiple agents sensing and acting in environments with the goal of maximising their shared utility. In these environments, agents must learn communication protocols in order to share information that is needed to solve the tasks. By embracing deep neural networks, we are able to demonstrate end-to-end learning of protocols in complex environments inspired by communication riddles and multi-agent computer vision problems with partial observability. We propose two approaches for learning in these domains: Reinforced Inter-Agent Learning (RIAL) and Differentiable Inter-Agent Learning (DIAL). The former uses deep Q-learning, while the latter exploits the fact that, during learning, agents can backpropagate error derivatives through (noisy) communication channels. Hence, this approach uses centralised learning but decentralised execution. Our experiments introduce new environments for studying the learning of communication protocols and present a set of engineering innovations that are essential for success in these domains.
Total Variation Classes Beyond 1d: Minimax Rates, and the Limitations of Linear Smoothers,We consider the problem of estimating a function defined over n locations on a d-dimensional grid (having all side lengths equal to n^(1/d)).  When the function is constrained to have discrete total variation bounded by Cn, we derive the minimax optimal (squared) L_2 estimation error rate, parametrized by n, Cn. Total variation denoising, also known as the fused lasso, is seen to be rate optimal.  Several simpler estimators exist, such as Laplacian smoothing and Laplacian eigenmaps.  A natural question is: can these simpler estimators perform just as well?  We prove that these estimators, and more broadly all estimators given by linear transformations of the input data, are suboptimal over the class of functions with bounded variation. This extends fundamental findings of Donoho and Johnstone (1998) on 1-dimensional total variation spaces to higher dimensions.  The implication is that the computationally simpler methods cannot be used for such sophisticated denoising tasks, without sacrificing statistical accuracy. We also derive minimax rates for discrete Sobolev spaces over d-dimensional grids, which are, in some sense, smaller than the total variation function spaces.  Indeed, these are small enough spaces that linear estimators can be optimal---and a few well-known ones are, such as Laplacian smoothing and Laplacian eigenmaps, as we show.  Lastly, we investigate the adaptivity of the total variation denoiser to these smaller Sobolev function spaces.
Exponential Family Embeddings,Word embeddings are a powerful approach to capturing semantic similarity among terms in a vocabulary. In this paper, we develop exponential family embeddings, which extends the idea of word embeddings to other types of high-dimensional data. As examples, we studied several types of data: neural data with real-valued observations, count data from a market basket analysis, and ratings data from a movie recommendation system. The main idea is that each observation is modeled conditioned on a set of latent embeddings and other observations, called the context, where the way the context is defined depends on the problem. In language the context is the surrounding words; in neuroscience the context is close-by neurons; in market basket data the context is other items in the shopping cart. Each instance of an embedding defines the context, the exponential family of conditional distributions, and how the embedding vectors are shared across data. We infer the embeddings with stochastic gradient descent, with an algorithm that connects closely to generalized linear models. On all three of our applicationsneural activity of zebrafish, users shopping behavior, and movie ratingswe found that exponential family embedding models are more effective than other dimension reduction methods. They better reconstruct held-out data and find interesting qualitative structure.
k*-Nearest Neighbors: From Global to Local,The weighted k-nearest neighbors  algorithm is one of the most fundamental non-parametric methods in pattern recognition and machine learning.  The question of setting the optimal number of neighbors as well as the optimal weights has received much attention throughout the years, nevertheless this problem seems to  have remained unsettled. In this paper we offer a simple approach to locally weighted regression/classification, where we make the bias-variance tradeoff explicit.  Our formulation enables us to phrase a notion of optimal weights, and to efficiently find these weights as well as the optimal number of neighbors  efficiently and adaptively, for each data point whose value we wish to estimate. The applicability of our approach is demonstrated on several datasets, showing superior performance over standard locally weighted methods.
Reward Augmented Maximum Likelihood for Neural Structured Prediction,A key problem in structured output prediction is enabling direct optimization of the task reward function that matters for test evaluation. This paper presents a simple and computationally efficient method that incorporates task reward into maximum likelihood training. We establish a connection between maximum likelihood and regularized expected reward, showing that they are approximately equivalent in the vicinity of the optimal solution. Then we show how maximum likelihood can be generalized by optimizing the conditional probability of auxiliary outputs that are sampled proportional to their exponentiated scaled rewards. We apply this framework to optimize edit distance in the output space, by sampling from edited targets. Experiments on speech recognition and machine translation for neural sequence to sequence models show notable improvements over maximum likelihood baseline by simply sampling from target output augmentations.
A Probabilistic Model of Social Decision Making based on Reward Maximization,A fundamental problem in cognitive neuroscience is how humans make decisions, act, and behave in relation to other humans. Here we adopt the hypothesis that when we are in an interactive social setting, our brains perform Bayesian inference of the intentions and cooperativeness of others using probabilistic representations. We employ the framework of partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) to model human decision making in a social context, focusing specifically on the volunteer's dilemma in a version of the classic Public Goods Game. We show that the POMDP model explains both the behavior of subjects as well as neural activity recorded using fMRI during the game. The decisions of subjects can be modeled across all trials using two interpretable parameters. Furthermore, the expected reward predicted by the model for each subject was correlated with the activation of brain areas related to reward expectation in social interactions. Our results suggest a probabilistic basis for human social decision making within the framework of expected reward maximization.
Active Learning with Oracle Epiphany,We present a theoretical analysis of active learning with more realistic interactions with human oracles. Previous empirical studies have shown oracles abstaining on difficult queries until accumulating enough information to make label decisions. We formalize this phenomenon with an oracle epiphany model and analyze active learning query complexity under such oracles for both the realizable and the agnos- tic cases. Our analysis shows that active learning is possible with oracle epiphany, but incurs an additional cost depending on when the epiphany happens. Our results suggest new, principled active learning approaches with realistic oracles.
On Regularizing Rademacher Observation Losses,It has recently been shown that supervised learning linear classifiers with two of the most popular losses, the logistic and square loss, is equivalent to optimizing an equivalent loss over sufficient statistics about the class: Rademacher observations (rados). It has also been shown that learning over rados brings solutions to two prominent problems for which the state of the art of learning from examples can be comparatively inferior and in fact less convenient: protecting and learning from private examples, learning from distributed datasets without entity resolution.   Bis repetita placent: the two proofs of equivalence are different and rely on specific properties of the corresponding losses, so whether these can be unified and generalized inevitably comes to mind. This is our first contribution: we show how they can be fit into the same theory for the equivalence between example and rado losses. As a second contribution, we show that the generalization unveils a surprising new connection to regularized learning, and in particular a sufficient condition under which regularizing the loss over examples is equivalent to regularizing the rados (i.e. the data) in the equivalent rado loss, in such a way that an efficient algorithm for one regularized rado loss may be as efficient when changing the regularizer. This is our third contribution: we give a formal boosting algorithm for the regularized exponential rado-loss which boost with any of the ridge, lasso, \slope, l_\infty, or elastic nets, using the same master routine for all. Because the regularized exponential rado-loss is the equivalent of the regularized logistic loss over examples we obtain the first efficient proxy to the minimisation of the regularized logistic loss over examples using such a wide spectrum of regularizers. Experiments with a readily available code display that regularization significantly improves rado-based learning and compares favourably with example-based learning.
A Non-generative Framework and Convex Relaxations for Unsupervised Learning,We give a novel formal theoretical framework for unsupervised learning with two distinctive characteristics. First, it does not assume any generative model and based on a worst-case performance metric. Second, it is comparative, namely performance is measured with respect to a given hypothesis class. This allows to avoid known computational hardness results and improper algorithms based on convex relaxations.  We show how several families of unsupervised learning models, which were previously only analyzed under probabilistic assumptions and are otherwise provably intractable, can be efficiently learned in our framework by convex optimization.
Learning Tree Structured Potential Games,Many real phenomena, including behaviors, involve strategic interactions that can be learned from data. We focus on learning tree structured potential games where equilibria are represented by local maxima of an underlying potential function. We cast the learning problem within a max margin setting and show that the problem is NP-hard even when the strategic interactions form a tree. We develop a variant of dual decomposition to estimate the underlying game and demonstrate with synthetic and real decision/voting data that the game theoretic perspective (carving out local maxima) enables meaningful recovery.
Equality of Opportunity in Supervised Learning,We propose a criterion for discrimination against a specified sensitive attribute in supervised learning, where the goal is to predict some target based on available features. Assuming data about the predictor, target, and membership in the protected group are available, we show how to optimally adjust any learned predictor so as to remove discrimination according to our definition. Our framework also improves incentives by shifting the cost of poor classification from disadvantaged groups to the decision maker, who can respond by improving the classification accuracy.
Interaction Networks for Learning about Objects, Relations and Physics,Reasoning about objects, relations, and physics is central to human intelligence, and a key goal of artificial intelligence. Here we introduce the interaction network, a model which can reason about how objects in complex systems interact, supporting dynamical predictions, as well as inferences about the abstract properties of the system. Our model takes graphs as input, performs object- and relation-centric reasoning in a way that is analogous to a simulation, and is implemented using deep neural networks. We evaluate its ability to reason about several challenging physical domains: n-body problems, rigid-body collision, and non-rigid dynamics. Our results show it can be trained to accurately simulate the physical trajectories of dozens of objects over thousands of time steps, estimate abstract quantities such as energy, and generalize automatically to systems with different numbers and configurations of objects and relations. Our interaction network implementation is the first general-purpose, learnable physics engine, and a powerful general framework for reasoning about object and relations in a wide variety of complex real-world domains.
beta-risk: a New Surrogate Risk for Learning from Weakly Labeled Data,During the past few years, the machine learning community has paid attention to developping new methods for learning from weakly labeled data. This field covers different settings like semi-supervised learning, learning with label proportions, multi-instance learning, noise-tolerant learning, etc. This paper presents a generic framework to deal with these weakly labeled scenarios. We introduce the beta-risk as a generalized formulation of the standard empirical risk based on surrogate margin-based loss functions. This risk allows us to express the reliability on the labels and to derive different kinds of learning algorithms. We specifically focus on SVMs and propose a soft margin beta-svm algorithm  which behaves better that the state of the art.
Binarized Neural Networks,We introduce a method to train Binarized Neural Networks (BNNs) - neural networks with binary weights and activations at run-time. At train-time the binary weights and activations are used for computing the parameter gradients. During the forward pass, BNNs drastically reduce memory size and accesses, and replace most arithmetic operations with bit-wise operations, which is expected to  substantially improve power-efficiency. To validate the effectiveness of BNNs, we conducted two sets of experiments on the Torch7 and Theano frameworks. On both, BNNs achieved nearly state-of-the-art results over the MNIST, CIFAR-10 and SVHN datasets. We also report our preliminary results on the challenging ImageNet dataset. Last but not least, we wrote a binary matrix multiplication GPU kernel with which it is possible to run our MNIST BNN 7 times faster  than with an unoptimized GPU kernel, without suffering any loss in classification accuracy. The code for training and running our BNNs is available on-line.
Regularization With Stochastic Transformations and Perturbations for Deep Semi-Supervised Learning,Effective convolutional neural networks are trained on large sets of labeled data. However, creating large labeled datasets is a very costly and time-consuming task. Semi-supervised learning uses unlabeled data to train a model with higher accuracy when there is a limited set of labeled data available. In this paper, we consider the problem of semi-supervised learning with convolutional neural networks. Techniques such as randomized data augmentation, dropout and random max-pooling provide better generalization and stability for classifiers that are trained using gradient descent. Multiple passes of an individual sample through the network might lead to different predictions due to the non-deterministic behavior of these techniques. We propose an unsupervised loss function that takes advantage of the stochastic nature of these methods and minimizes the difference between the predictions of multiple passes of a training sample through the network. We evaluate the proposed method on several benchmark datasets.
Generating Images with Perceptual Similarity Metrics based on Deep Networks,We propose a class of loss functions, which we call deep perceptual similarity metrics (DeePSiM), allowing to generate sharp high resolution images from compressed abstract representations. Instead of computing distances in the image space, we compute distances between image features extracted by deep neural networks. This metric reflects perceptual similarity of images much better and, thus, leads to better results. We demonstrate two examples of use cases of the proposed loss: (1) networks that invert the AlexNet convolutional network; (2) a modified version of a variational autoencoder that generates realistic high-resolution random images.
Exploiting Tradeoffs for Exact Recovery in Heterogeneous Stochastic Block Models,The Stochastic Block Model (SBM) is a widely used random graph model for networks with communities. Despite the recent burst of interest in community detection under the SBM from statistical and computational points of view, there are still gaps in understanding the fundamental limits of recovery. In this paper, we consider the SBM in its full generality, where there is no restriction on the number and sizes of communities or how they grow with the number of nodes, as well as on the connectivity probabilities inside or across communities. For such stochastic block models, we provide guarantees for exact recovery via a semidefinite program as well as upper and lower bounds on SBM parameters for exact recoverability. Our results exploit the tradeoffs among the various parameters of heterogenous SBM and provide recovery guarantees for many new interesting SBM configurations.
Tensor Switching Networks,We present a novel neural network algorithm, the Tensor Switching (TS) network, which generalizes the Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) nonlinearity to tensor-valued hidden units. The TS network copies its entire input vector to different locations in an expanded representation, with the location determined by its hidden unit activity. In this way, even a simple linear readout from the TS representation can implement a highly expressive deep-network-like function. The TS network hence avoids the vanishing gradient problem by construction, at the cost of larger representation size. We develop several methods to train the TS network, including equivalent kernels for infinitely wide and deep TS networks, a one-pass linear learning algorithm, and two backpropagation-inspired representation learning algorithms. Our experimental results demonstrate that the TS network is indeed more expressive and consistently learns faster than standard ReLU networks.
Finite-Dimensional BFRY Priors and Variational Bayesian Inference for Power Law Models,Bayesian nonparametric  methods based on the Dirichlet process (DP), gamma process and beta process, have proven effective in capturing aspects of various datasets arising in machine learning.  However, it is now recognized that such processes have their limitations in terms of the ability to capture power law behavior. As such there is now considerable interest in models based on the Stable Processs (SP), Generalized Gamma process (GGP) and Stable-beta process (SBP). These models present new challenges in terms of practical statistical implementation. In analogy to tractable processes such as the finite-dimensional Dirichlet process, we describe a class of random processes, we call iid finite-dimensional BFRY processes, that enables one to begin to develop efficient posterior inference algorithms such as variational Bayes that readily scale to massive datasets. For illustrative purposes, we describe a simple variational Bayes algorithm for normalized SP mixture models, and demonstrate its usefulness with experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets.
Temporal Regularized Matrix Factorization for High-dimensional Time Series Prediction,Time series prediction problems are becoming increasingly high-dimensional in modern applications, such as climatology and demand forecasting. For example, in the latter problem, the number of items for which demand needs to be forecast might be as large as 50,000. In addition, the data is generally noisy and full of missing values. Thus, modern applications require methods that are  highly scalable, and can deal with noisy data in terms of corruptions or missing values. However, classical time series methods usually fall short of handling these issues.  In this paper, we present a temporal regularized matrix factorization  (TRMF) framework which supports data-driven temporal learning and  forecasting. We develop novel regularization schemes and use scalable matrix factorization methods that are eminently suited for high-dimensional time series data that has many missing values.  Our proposed TRMF is highly general, and subsumes many existing approaches for time series analysis.  We make interesting connections to graph regularization methods in the context of learning the dependencies in an autoregressive framework. Experimental results show the superiority of TRMF in terms of scalability and prediction quality. In particular,  TRMF is two orders of magnitude  faster than other methods on a problem of dimension 50,000, and generates better forecasts on real-world datasets such as Wal-mart E-commerce datasets.
Composing graphical models with neural networks for structured representations and fast inference,We propose a general modeling and inference framework that combines the complementary strengths of probabilistic graphical models and deep learning methods. Our model family composes latent graphical models with neural network observation likelihoods. For inference, we use recognition networks to produce local evidence potentials, then combine them with the model distribution using efficient message-passing algorithms. All components are trained simultaneously with a single stochastic variational inference objective. We illustrate this framework by automatically segmenting and categorizing mouse behavior from raw depth video, and demonstrate several other example models.
PAC Reinforcement Learning with Rich Observations,We propose and study a new model for reinforcement learning with rich observations, generalizing contextual bandits to sequential decision making.  These models require an agent to take actions based on observations (features) with the goal of achieving long-term performance competitive with a large set of policies.  To avoid barriers to sample-efficient learning associated with large observation spaces and general POMDPs, we focus on problems that can be summarized by a small number of hidden states and have long-term rewards that are predictable by a reactive function class.  In this setting, we design and analyze a new reinforcement learning algorithm, Least Squares Value Elimination by Exploration. We prove that the algorithm learns near optimal behavior after a number of episodes that is polynomial in all relevant parameters, logarithmic in the number of policies, and independent of the size of the observation space. Our result provides theoretical justification for reinforcement learning with function approximation.
Algorithms and matching lower bounds for approximately-convex optimization,In recent years, a rapidly increasing number of applications in practice requires solving non-convex objectives, like training neural networks, learning graphical models, maximum likelihood estimation etc. Though simple heuristics such as gradient descent with very few modifications tend to work well, theoretical understanding is very weak.   We consider possibly the most natural class of non-convex functions where one could hope to obtain provable guarantees: functions that are ``approximately convex'', i.e. functions $\tf: \Real^d \to \Real$ for which there exists a \emph{convex function} $f$ such that for all $x$, $|\tf(x) - f(x)| \le \errnoise$ for a fixed value $\errnoise$. We then want to minimize $\tf$, i.e. output a point $\tx$ such that $\tf(\tx) \le \min_{x} \tf(x) + \err$.   It is quite natural to conjecture that for fixed $\err$, the problem gets harder for larger $\errnoise$, however, the exact dependency of $\err$ and $\errnoise$ is not known. In this paper, we strengthen the known \emph{information theoretic} lower bounds on the trade-off between $\err$ and $\errnoise$ substantially, and exhibit an algorithm that matches these lower bounds for a large class of convex bodies.
Proximal Stochastic Methods for Nonsmooth Nonconvex Finite-Sum Optimization,We analyze stochastic algorithms for optimizing nonconvex, nonsmooth finite-sum problems, where the nonsmooth part is convex.  Surprisingly, unlike the smooth case, our knowledge of this fundamental problem is very limited. For example, it is not known whether the proximal stochastic gradient method with constant minibatch converges to a stationary point. To tackle this issue, we develop fast stochastic algorithms that provably converge to a stationary point for constant minibatches. Furthermore, using a variant of these algorithms, we obtain provably faster convergence than batch proximal gradient descent. Our results are based on the recent variance reduction techniques for convex optimization but with a novel analysis for handling nonconvex and nonsmooth functions. We also prove global linear convergence rate for an interesting subclass of nonsmooth nonconvex functions, which subsumes several recent works.
A Simple Practical Accelerated Method for Finite Sums,Abstract We describe a novel optimization method for finite sums (such as empirical risk minimization problems) building on the recently introduced SAGA method. Our method achieves an accelerated convergence rate on strongly convex smooth problems. Our method has only one parameter (a step size), and is radically simpler than other accelerated methods for finite sums. Additionally it can be applied when the terms are non-smooth, yielding a method applicable in many areas where operator splitting methods would traditionally be applied.
Unsupervised Learning for Physical Interaction through Video Prediction,A core challenge for an agent learning to interact with the world is to predict how its actions affect objects in its environment. Many existing methods for learning the dynamics of physical interactions require labeled object information. However, to scale real-world interaction learning to a variety of scenes and objects, acquiring labeled data becomes increasingly impractical. To learn about physical object motion without labels, we develop an action-conditioned video prediction model that explicitly models pixel motion, by predicting a distribution over pixel motion from previous frames. Because our model explicitly predicts motion, it is partially invariant to object appearance, enabling it to generalize to previously unseen objects. To explore video prediction for real-world interactive agents, we also introduce a dataset of 59,000 robot interactions involving pushing motions, including a test set with novel objects. In this dataset, accurate prediction of videos conditioned on the robot's future actions amounts to learning a "visual imagination" of different futures based on different courses of action. Our experiments show that our proposed method produces more accurate video predictions both quantitatively and qualitatively, when compared to prior methods.
Threshold Learning for Optimal Decision Making,Decision making under uncertainty is commonly modelled as a process of competitive stochastic evidence accumulation to threshold (the drift-diffusion model). However, it is unknown how animals learn these decision thresholds. We examine threshold learning by constructing a reward function that averages over many trials to Wald's cost function that defines decision optimality. These rewards are highly stochastic and hence challenging to optimize, which we address in two ways: first, a simple two-factor reward-modulated learning rule derived from Williams' REINFORCE method for neural networks; and second, Bayesian optimization of the reward function with a Gaussian process. Bayesian optimization converges in fewer trials than REINFORCE but is slower computationally with greater variance. The REINFORCE method is also a better model of acquisition behaviour in animals and a similar learning rule has been proposed for modelling basal ganglia function.
Collaborative Recurrent Autoencoder: Recommend while Learning to Fill in the Blanks,Hybrid methods that utilize both content and rating information are commonly used in many recommender systems. However, most of them use either handcrafted features or the bag-of-words representation as a surrogate for the content information but they are neither effective nor natural enough. To address this problem, we develop a collaborative recurrent autoencoder (CRAE) which is a denoising recurrent autoencoder (DRAE) that models the generation of content sequences in the collaborative filtering (CF) setting. The model generalizes recent advances in recurrent deep learning from i.i.d. input to non-i.i.d. (CF-based) input and provides a new denoising scheme along with a novel learnable pooling scheme for the recurrent autoencoder. To do this, we first develop a hierarchical Bayesian model for the DRAE and then generalize it to the CF setting. The synergy between denoising and CF enables CRAE to make accurate recommendations while learning to fill in the blanks in sequences. Experiments on real-world datasets from different domains (CiteULike and Netflix) show that, by jointly modeling the order-aware generation of sequences for the content information and performing CF for the ratings, CRAE is able to significantly outperform the state of the art on both the recommendation task based on ratings and the sequence generation task based on content information.
Finding significant combinations of features in the presence of categorical covariates,In high-dimensional settings, where the number of features p is typically much larger than the number of samples n, methods which can systematically examine arbitrary combinations of features, a huge 2^p-dimensional space, have recently begun to be explored. However, none of the current methods is able to assess the association between feature combinations and a target variable while conditioning on a categorical covariate, in order to correct for potential confounding effects.  We propose the Fast Automatic Conditional Search (FACS) algorithm, a significant discriminative itemset mining method which conditions on categorical covariates and only scales as O(k log k), where k is the number of states of the categorical covariate. Based on the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel Test, FACS demonstrates superior speed and statistical power on simulated and real-world datasets compared to the state of the art, opening the door to numerous applications in biomedicine.
Synthesizing the preferred inputs for neurons in neural networks via deep generator networks,Deep neural networks (DNNs) have demonstrated state-of-the-art results on many pattern recognition tasks, especially vision classification problems. Understanding the inner workings of such computational brains is both fascinating basic science that is interesting in its own right---similar to why we study the human brain---and will enable researchers to further improve DNNs. One path to understanding how a neural network functions internally is to study what each of its neurons has learned to detect. One such method is called activation maximization, which synthesizes an input (e.g. an image) that highly activates a neuron. Here we dramatically improve the qualitative state of the art of activation maximization by harnessing a powerful, learned prior: a deep generator network. The algorithm (1) generates qualitatively state-of-the-art synthetic images that look almost real, (2) reveals the features learned by each neuron in an interpretable way, (3) generalizes well to new datasets and somewhat well to different network architectures without requiring the prior to be relearned, and (4) can be considered as a high-quality generative method (in this case, by generating novel, creative, interesting, recognizable images).
Learning Infinite RBMs with Frank-Wolfe,In this work, we propose an infinite restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM), whose maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) corresponds to a constrained convex optimization.  We consider the Frank-Wolfe algorithm to solve the program, which provides a sparse solution that can be interpreted as inserting a hidden unit at each iteration, so that the optimization process takes the form of a sequence of finite models of increasing complexity.  As a side benefit, this can be used to easily and efficiently identify an appropriate number of hidden units during the optimization. The resulting model can also be used as an initialization for typical state-of-the-art RBM training algorithms such as contrastive divergence, leading to models with consistently higher test likelihood than random initialization.
Sorting out typicality with the inverse moment matrix SOS polynomial,We study a surprising phenomenon related to the representation of a cloud of data points using polynomials. We start with the previously unnoticed empirical observation that, given a collection (a cloud) of data points, the sublevel sets of a certain distinguished polynomial capture the shape of the cloud very accurately. This distinguished polynomial is a sum-of-squares (SOS) derived in a simple manner from the inverse of the empirical moment matrix. In fact, this SOS polynomial is directly related to orthogonal polynomials and the Christoffel function. This allows to generalize and interpret extremality properties of orthogonal polynomials and to provide a mathematical rationale for the observed phenomenon. Among diverse potential applications, we illustrate the relevance of our results on a network intrusion detection task for which we obtain performances similar to existing dedicated methods reported in the literature.
Improving PAC Exploration Using the Median Of Means,We present the first application of the median of means in a PAC exploration algorithm for MDPs. Using the median of means allows us to significantly reduce the dependence of our bounds on the range of values that the value function can take, while introducing a dependence on the (potentially much smaller) variance of the Bellman operator. Additionally, our algorithm is the first algorithm with PAC bounds that can be applied to MDPs with unbounded rewards.
Reconstructing Parameters of Spreading Models from Partial Observations,Spreading processes are often modelled as a stochastic dynamics occurring on top of a given network with edge weights corresponding to the transmission probabilities. Knowledge of veracious transmission probabilities is essential for prediction, optimization, and control of diffusion dynamics. Unfortunately, in most cases the transmission rates are unknown and need to be reconstructed from the spreading data. Moreover, in realistic settings it is impossible to monitor the state of each node at every time, and thus the data is highly incomplete. We introduce an efficient dynamic message-passing algorithm, which is able to reconstruct parameters of the spreading model given only partial information on the activation times of nodes in the network. The method is generalizable to a large class of dynamic models, as well to the case of temporal graphs.
Dynamic Filter Networks,In a traditional convolutional layer, the learned filters stay fixed after training. In contrast, we introduce a new framework, the Dynamic Filter Network, where filters are generated dynamically conditioned on an input. We show that this architecture is a powerful one, with increased flexibility thanks to its adaptive nature, yet without an excessive increase in the number of model parameters. A wide variety of filtering operation can be learned this way, including local spatial transformations, but also others like selective (de)blurring or adaptive feature extraction. Moreover, multiple such layers can be combined, e.g. in a recurrent architecture. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the dynamic filter network on the tasks of video and stereo prediction, and reach state-of-the-art performance on the moving MNIST dataset with a much smaller model. By visualizing the learned filters, we illustrate that the network has picked up flow information by only looking at unlabelled training data. This suggests that the network can be used to pretrain networks for various supervised tasks in an unsupervised way, like optical flow and depth estimation.
Generating Long-term Trajectories Using Deep Hierarchical Networks,We study the problem of modeling spatiotemporal trajectories over long time horizons using expert demonstrations. For instance, in sports, agents often choose action sequences with long-term goals in mind, such as achieving a certain strategic position. Conventional policy learning approaches, such as those based on Markov decision processes, generally fail at learning cohesive long-term behavior in such high-dimensional state spaces, and are only effective when fairly myopic decision-making yields the desired behavior. The key difficulty is that conventional models are ``single-scale'' and only learn a single state-action policy. We instead propose a hierarchical policy class that automatically reasons about both long-term and short-term goals, which we instantiate as a hierarchical neural network. We showcase our approach in a case study on learning to imitate demonstrated basketball trajectories, and show that it generates significantly more realistic trajectories compared to non-hierarchical baselines as judged by professional sports analysts.
Cooperative Inverse Reinforcement Learning,For an autonomous system to be helpful to humans and to pose no unwarranted risks, it needs to align its values with those of the humans in its environment in such a way that its actions contribute to the maximization of value for the humans. We propose a formal definition of the value alignment problem as cooperative inverse reinforcement learning (CIRL). A CIRL problem is a cooperative, partial- information game with two agents, human and robot; both are rewarded according to the humans reward function, but the robot does not initially know what this is. In contrast to classical IRL, where the human is assumed to act optimally in isolation, optimal CIRL solutions produce behaviors such as active teaching, active learning, and communicative actions that are more effective in achieving value alignment. We show that computing optimal joint policies in CIRL games can be reduced to solving a POMDP, prove that optimality in isolation is suboptimal in CIRL, and derive an approximate CIRL algorithm.
Review Networks for Caption Generation,We propose a novel extension of the encoder-decoder framework, called a review network. The review network is generic and can enhance any existing encoder- decoder model: in this paper, we consider RNN decoders with both CNN and RNN encoders. The review network performs a number of review steps with attention mechanism on the encoder hidden states, and outputs a thought vector after each review step; the thought vectors are used as the input of the attention mechanism in the decoder. We show that conventional encoder-decoders are a special case of our framework. Empirically, we show that our framework improves over state-of- the-art encoder-decoder systems on the tasks of image captioning and source code captioning.
Gradient-based Sampling: An Adaptive Importance Sampling for Least-squares,In modern data analysis, random sampling is an efficient and widely-used strategy to overcome the computational difficulties brought by large sample size. In previous studies, researchers conducted random sampling which is according to the input data but independent on the response variable, however the response variable may also be informative for sampling. In this paper we propose an adaptive sampling called the gradient-based sampling which is dependent on both the input data and the output for fast solving of least-square (LS) problems. We draw the data points by random sampling from the full data according to their gradient values. This sampling is computationally saving, since the running time of computing the sampling probabilities is reduced to O(nd) where n is the full sample size and d is the dimension of the input. Theoretically, we establish an error bound analysis of the general importance sampling with respect to LS solution from full data. The result establishes an improved performance of the use of our gradient-based sampling. Synthetic and real data sets are used to empirically argue that the gradient-based sampling has an obvious advantage over existing sampling methods from two aspects of statistical efficiency and computational saving.
Robust k-means: a Theoretical Revisit,Over the last years, many variations of the quadratic k-means clustering procedure have been proposed, all aiming to robustify the performance of the algorithm in the presence of outliers. In general terms, two main approaches have been developed: one based on penalized regularization methods, and one based on trimming functions. In this work, we present a theoretical analysis of the robustness and consistency properties of a variant of the classical quadratic k-means algorithm, the robust k-means, which borrows ideas from outlier detection in regression. We show that two outliers in a dataset are enough to breakdown this clustering procedure. However, if we focus on well-structured datasets, then robust k-means can recover the underlying cluster structure in spite of the outliers. Finally, we show that, with slight modifications, the most general non-asymptotic results for consistency of quadratic k-means remain valid for this robust variant.
Boosting with Abstention,We present a new boosting algorithm for the key scenario of binary classification with abstention where the algorithm can abstain from predicting the label of a point, at the price of a fixed cost.  At each round, our algorithm selects a pair of functions, a base predictor and a base abstention function.  We define convex upper bounds for the natural loss function associated to this problem, which we prove to be calibrated with respect to the Bayes solution. Our algorithm benefits from general margin-based learning guarantees which we derive for ensembles of pairs of base predictor and abstention functions, in terms of the Rademacher complexities of the corresponding function classes.  We give convergence guarantees for our algorithm along with a linear-time weak-learning algorithm for abstention stumps. We also report the results of several experiments suggesting that our algorithm provides a significant improvement in practice over two confidence-based algorithms.
Estimating the class prior and posterior from noisy positives and unlabeled data,We develop a classification algorithm for estimating posterior distributions from positive-unlabeled data, that is robust to noise in the positive labels and effective for high-dimensional data. In recent years, several algorithms have been proposed to learn from positive-unlabeled data; however, many of these contributions remain theoretical, performing poorly on real high-dimensional data that is typically contaminated with noise. We build on this previous work to develop two practical classification algorithms that explicitly model the noise in the positive labels and utilize univariate transforms built on discriminative classifiers. We prove that these univariate transforms preserve the class prior, enabling estimation in the univariate space and avoiding kernel density estimation for high-dimensional data. The theoretical development and parametric and nonparametric algorithms proposed here constitute an important step towards wide-spread use of robust classification algorithms for positive-unlabeled data.
Bootstrap Model Aggregation for Distributed Statistical Learning,In distributed, or privacy-preserving learning, we are often given a set of probabilistic models estimated from different local repositories, and asked to combine them into a single model that gives efficient statistical estimation. A simple method is to linearly average the parameters of the local models, which, however, tends to be degenerate or not applicable on non-convex models, or models with different parameter dimensions. One more practical strategy is to generate bootstrap samples from the local models, and then learn a joint model based on the combined bootstrap set. Unfortunately, the bootstrap procedure introduces additional noise and can significantly deteriorate the performance. In this work, we propose two variance reduction methods to correct the bootstrap noise, including a weighted M-estimator that is both statistically efficient and practically powerful. Both theoretical and empirical analysis is provided to demonstrate our methods.
Noise-Tolerant Life-Long Matrix Completion via Adaptive Sampling,We study the problem of recovering an incomplete $m\times n$ matrix of rank $r$ with columns arriving online over time. This is known as the problem of life-long matrix completion, and is widely applied to recommendation system, computer vision, system identification, etc. The challenge is to design provable algorithms tolerant to a large amount of noises, with small sample complexity. In this work, we give algorithms achieving strong guarantee under two realistic noise models. In bounded deterministic noise, an adversary can add any bounded yet unstructured noise to each column. For this problem, we present an algorithm that returns a matrix of a small error, with sample complexity almost as small as the best prior results in the noiseless case. For sparse random noise, where the corrupted columns are sparse and drawn randomly, we give an algorithm that exactly recovers an $\mu_0$-incoherent matrix by probability at least $1-\delta$ with sample complexity as small as $O(\mu_0rn\log(r/\delta))$. This result advances the state-of-the-art work and matches the lower bound in a worst case. We also study the scenario where the hidden matrix lies on a mixture of subspaces and show that the sample complexity can be even smaller. Our proposed algorithms perform well experimentally in both synthetic and real-world datasets.
FPNN: Field Probing Neural Networks for 3D Data,Building discriminative representations for 3D data has been an important task in computer graphics and computer vision research. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have shown to operate on 2D images with great success for a variety of tasks. Lifting convolution operators to 3D (3DCNNs) seems like a plausible and promising next step. Unfortunately, the computational complexity of 3D CNNs grows cubically with respect to voxel resolution. Moreover, since most 3D geometry representations are boundary based, occupied regions do not increase proportionately with the size of the discretization, resulting in wasted computation. In this work, we represent 3D spaces as volumetric fields, and propose a novel design that employs field probing filters to efficiently extract features from them. Each field probing filter is a set of probing points -- sensors that perceive the space. Our learning algorithm optimizes not only the weights associated with the probing points, but also their locations, which deforms the shape of the probing filters and adaptively distributes them in 3D space. The optimized probing points sense the 3D space "intelligently", rather than operating blindly over the entire domain. We show that field probing is significantly more efficient than 3DCNNs, while providing state-of-the-art performance, on classification tasks for 3D object recognition benchmark datasets.
Causal meets Submodular: Subset Selection with Directed Information,We study causal subset selection with Directed Information as the measure of prediction causality. Two typical tasks, causal sensor placement and covariate selection, are correspondingly formulated into cardinality constrained directed information maximizations. To attack the NP-hard problems, we show that the first problem is submodular while not necessarily monotonic. And the second one is ``nearly'' submodular.  To substantiate the idea of approximate submodularity, we introduce a novel quantity, namely submodularity index (SmI), for general set functions. Moreover, we show that based on SmI, greedy algorithm has performance guarantee for the maximization of possibly non-monotonic and non-submodular functions, justifying its usage for a much broader class of problems. We evaluate the theoretical results with several case studies, and also illustrate the application of the subset selection to causal structure learning.
Improving Variational Autoencoders with Inverse Autoregressive Flow,We propose a simple and scalable method for improving the flexibility of variational inference through a transformation with autoregressive neural networks. Autoregressive neural networks, such as RNNs or the PixelCNN, are very powerful models and potentially interesting for use as variational posterior approximation. However, ancestral sampling in such networks is a long sequential operation, and therefore typically very slow on modern parallel hardware, such as GPUs. We show that by inverting autoregressive neural networks we can obtain equally powerful posterior models from which we can sample efficiently on modern hardware. We show that such data transformations, inverse autoregressive flows (IAF), can be used to transform a simple distribution over the latent variables into a much more flexible distribution, while still allowing us to compute the resulting variables' probability density function. The method is simple to implement, can be made arbitrarily flexible and, in contrast with previous work, is well applicable to models with high-dimensional latent spaces, such as convolutional generative models.  The method is applied to a novel deep architecture of variational auto-encoders. In experiments with natural images, we demonstrate that autoregressive flow leads to significant performance gains.
Adaptive Smoothed Online Multi-Task Learning,This paper addresses the challenge of jointly learning both the per-task model parameters and the inter-task relationships in a multi-task online learning setting. The proposed algorithm features probabilistic interpretation, efficient updating rules and flexible modulation on whether learners focus on their specific task or on jointly address all tasks.  The paper also proves a sub-linear regret bound as compared to the best linear predictor in hindsight. Experiments over three multi-task learning benchmark datasets show advantageous performance of the proposed approach over several state-of-the-art online multi-task learning baselines.
The Limits of Learning with Missing Data,We study regression and classification in a setting where the learning algorithm is allowed to access only a limited number of attributes per example, known as the limited attribute observation model. In this well-studied model, we provide the first lower bounds giving a limit on the precision attainable by any algorithm for several variants of regression, notably linear regression with the absolute loss and the squared loss, as well as for classification with the hinge loss. We complement these lower bounds with a general purpose algorithm that gives an upper bound on the achievable precision limit in the setting of learning with missing data.
Safe Exploration in Finite Markov Decision Processes with Gaussian Processes,In classical reinforcement learning agents accept arbitrary short term loss for long term gain when exploring their environment. This is infeasible for safety critical applications such as robotics, where even a single unsafe action may cause system failure or harm the environment. In this paper, we address the problem of safely exploring finite Markov decision processes (MDP). We define safety in terms of an a priori unknown safety constraint that depends on states and actions and satisfies certain regularity conditions expressed via a Gaussian process prior. We develop a novel algorithm, SAFEMDP, for this task and prove that it completely explores the safely reachable part of the MDP without violating the safety constraint. To achieve this, it cautiously explores safe states and actions in order to gain statistical confidence about the safety of unvisited state-action pairs from noisy observations collected while navigating the environment. Moreover, the algorithm explicitly considers reachability when exploring the MDP, ensuring that it does not get stuck in any state with no safe way out. We demonstrate our method on digital terrain models for the task of exploring an unknown map with a rover.
Sparse Support Recovery with Non-smooth Loss Functions,In this paper, we study the support recovery guarantees of underdetermined sparse regression using the $\ell_1$-norm as a regularizer and a non-smooth loss function for data fidelity. More precisely, we focus in detail on the cases of $\ell_1$ and $\ell_\infty$ losses, and contrast them with the usual $\ell_2$ loss.While these losses are routinely used to account for either sparse ($\ell_1$ loss) or uniform ($\ell_\infty$ loss) noise models, a theoretical analysis of their performance is still lacking. In this article, we extend the existing theory from the smooth $\ell_2$ case to these non-smooth cases. We derive a sharp condition which ensures that the support of the vector to recover is stable to small additive noise in the observations, as long as the loss constraint size is tuned proportionally to the noise level. A distinctive feature of our theory is that it also explains what happens when the support is unstable. While the support is not stable anymore, we identify an "extended support" and show that this extended support is stable to small additive noise. To exemplify the usefulness of our theory, we give a detailed numerical analysis of the support stability/instability of compressed sensing recovery with these different losses. This highlights different parameter regimes, ranging from total support stability to progressively increasing support instability.
Crowdsourced Clustering: Querying Edges vs Triangles,We consider the task of clustering items using answers from non-expert crowd workers. In such cases, the workers are often not able to label the items directly, however, it is reasonable to assume that they can compare items and judge whether they are similar or not. An important question is what queries to make, and we compare two types: random edge queries, where a pair of items is revealed, and random triangles, where a triple is. Since it is far too expensive to query all possible edges and/or triangles, we need to work with partial observations subject to a fixed query budget constraint. When a generative model for the data is available (and we consider a few of these) we determine the cost of a query by its entropy; when such models do not exist we use the average response time per query of the workers as a surrogate for the cost. In addition to theoretical justification, through several simulations and experiments on two real data sets on Amazon Mechanical Turk, we empirically demonstrate that, for a fixed budget, triangle queries uniformly outperform edge queries. Even though, in contrast to edge queries, triangle queries reveal dependent edges, they provide more reliable edges and, for a fixed budget, many more of them. We also provide a sufficient condition on the number of observations, edge densities inside and outside the clusters and the minimum cluster size required for the exact recovery of the true adjacency matrix via triangle queries using a convex optimization-based clustering algorithm.
Dual Decomposed Learning with Factorwise Oracle for Structural SVM of Large Output Domain,Many applications of machine learning involve structured output with large domain, where learning of structured predictor is prohibitive due to repetitive calls to expensive inference oracle. In this work, we show that, by decomposing training of Structural Support Vector Machine (SVM) into a series of multiclass SVM problems connected through messages, one can replace expensive structured oracle with Factorwise Maximization Oracle (FMO) that allows efficient implementation of complexity sublinear to the factor domain. A Greedy Direction Method of Multiplier (GDMM) algorithm is proposed to exploit sparsity of messages which guarantees $\epsilon$ sub-optimality after $O(log(1/\epsilon))$ passes of FMO calls. We conduct experiments on chain-structured problems and fully-connected problems of large output domains. The proposed approach is orders-of-magnitude faster than the state-of-the-art training algorithms for Structural SVM.
Sampling for Bayesian Program Learning,Towards learning programs from data, we introduce the problem of   sampling programs from posterior distributions conditioned on that   data. Within this setting, we propose an algorithm that uses a   symbolic solver to efficiently sample programs.  The proposal   combines constraint-based program synthesis with sampling via random   parity constraints.  We give theoretical guarantees on how well the   samples approximate the true posterior, and have empirical results   showing the algorithm is efficient in practice, evaluating our   approach on 22 program learning problems in the domains of text   editing and computer-aided programming.
Multiple-Play Bandits in the Position-Based Model,Sequentially learning to place items in multi-position displays or lists is a task that can be cast into the multiple-play semi-bandit setting. However, a major concern in this context is when the system cannot decide whether the user feedback for each item is actually exploitable. Indeed, much of the content may have been simply ignored by the user. The present work proposes to exploit available information regarding the display position bias under the so-called Position-based click model (PBM). We first discuss how this model differs from the Cascade model and its variants considered in several recent works on multiple-play bandits. We then provide a novel regret lower bound for this model as well as computationally efficient algorithms that display good empirical and theoretical performance.
Image Restoration Using Very Deep Convolutional Encoder-Decoder Networks with Symmetric Skip Connections,In this paper, we propose a very deep fully convolutional encoding-decoding framework for image restoration such as denoising and super-resolution. The network is composed of multiple layers of convolution and deconvolution operators, learning end-to-end mappings from corrupted images to the original ones. The convolutional layers act as the feature extractor, which capture the abstraction of image contents while eliminating noises/corruptions. Deconvolutional layers are then used to recover the image details. We propose to symmetrically link convolutional and deconvolutional layers with skip-layer connections, with which the training converges much faster and attains a higher-quality local optimum. First, the skip connections allow the signal to be back-propagated to bottom layers directly, and thus tackles the problem of gradient vanishing, making training deep networks easier and achieving restoration performance gains consequently. Second, these skip connections pass image details from convolutional layers to deconvolutional layers, which is beneficial in recovering the original image. Significantly, with the large capacity, we can handle different levels of noises using a single model. Experimental results show that our network achieves better performance than recent state-of-the-art methods.
Optimistic Bandit Convex Optimization,We introduce the general and powerful scheme of predicting information re-use in optimization algorithms. This allows us to devise a computationally efficient algorithm for bandit convex optimization with new state-of-the-art guarantees for both Lipschitz loss functions and loss functions with Lipschitz gradients. This is the first algorithm admitting both a polynomial time complexity and a regret that is polynomial in the dimension of the action space that improves upon the original regret bound for Lipschitz loss functions, achieving a regret of $\widetilde O(T^{11/16}d^{3/8})$. Our algorithm further improves upon the best existing polynomial-in-dimension bound (both computationally and in terms of regret) for loss functions with Lipschitz gradients, achieving a regret of $\widetilde O(T^{8/13} d^{5/3})$.
Computing and maximizing influence in linear threshold and triggering models,We establish upper and lower bounds for the influence of a set of nodes in certain types of contagion models. We derive two sets of bounds, the first designed for linear threshold models, and the second more broadly applicable to a general class of triggering models, which subsumes the popular independent cascade models, as well. We quantify the gap between our upper and lower bounds in the case of the linear threshold model and illustrate the gains of our upper bounds for independent cascade models in relation to existing results. Importantly, our lower bounds are monotonic and submodular, implying that a greedy algorithm for influence maximization is guaranteed to produce a maximizer within a (1 - 1/e)-factor of the truth. Although the problem of exact influence computation is NP-hard in general, our bounds may be evaluated efficiently. This leads to an attractive, highly scalable algorithm for influence maximization with rigorous theoretical guarantees.
Clustering with Bregman Divergences: an Asymptotic Analysis,Clustering, in particular $k$-means clustering, is a central topic in data analysis. Clustering with Bregman divergences is a recently proposed generalization of $k$-means clustering which has already been widely used in applications.  In this paper we analyze theoretical properties of Bregman clustering when the number of the clusters $k$ is large. We establish quantization rates and describe the limiting distribution of the centers as $k\to \infty$, extending well-known results for  $k$-means clustering.
Community Detection on Evolving Graphs,Clustering is a fundamental step in many information-retrieval and data-mining applications. Detecting clusters in graphs is also a key tool for finding the community structure in social and behavioral networks. In many of these applications, the input graph evolves over time in a continual and decentralized manner, and, to maintain a good clustering, the clustering algorithm needs to repeatedly probe the graph. Furthermore, there are often limitations on the frequency of such probes, either imposed explicitly by the online platform (e.g., in the case of crawling proprietary social networks like twitter) or implicitly because of resource limitations (e.g., in the case of crawling the web).  In this paper, we study a model of clustering on evolving graphs that captures this aspect of the problem. Our model is based on the classical stochastic block model, which has been used to assess rigorously the quality of various static clustering methods. In our model, the algorithm is supposed to reconstruct the planted clustering, given the ability to query for small pieces of local information about the graph, at a limited rate. We design and analyze clustering algorithms that work in this model, and show asymptotically tight upper and lower bounds on their accuracy. Finally, we perform simulations, which demonstrate that our main asymptotic results hold true also in practice.
Dueling Bandits: Beyond Condorcet Winners to General Tournament Solutions,Recent work on deriving $O(\log T)$ anytime regret bounds for stochastic dueling bandit problems has considered mostly Condorcet winners, which do not always exist, and more recently, winners defined by the Copeland set, which do always exist. In this work, we consider a broad notion of winners defined by tournament solutions in social choice theory, which include the Copeland set as a special case but also include several other notions of winners such as the top cycle, uncovered set, and Banks set, and which, like the Copeland set, always exist. We develop a family of UCB-style dueling bandit algorithms for such general tournament solutions, and show $O(\log T)$ anytime regret bounds for them. Experiments confirm the ability of our algorithms to achieve low regret relative to the target winning set of interest.
Learning a Metric Embedding  for Face Recognition using the Multibatch Method,This work is motivated by the engineering task of achieving a near state-of-the-art face recognition on a minimal computing budget running on an embedded system.  Our main technical contribution centers around a novel training method, called Multibatch, for similarity learning, i.e., for the task of generating an invariant ``face signature'' through training pairs of ``same'' and ``not-same'' face images. The Multibatch method first generates signatures for a mini-batch of $k$ face images and then constructs an unbiased estimate of the full gradient by relying on all $k^2-k$ pairs from the mini-batch. We prove that the variance of the Multibatch estimator is bounded by $O(1/k^2)$, under some mild conditions. In contrast, the standard gradient estimator that relies on random $k/2$ pairs has a variance of order $1/k$. The smaller variance of the Multibatch estimator significantly speeds up the convergence rate of stochastic gradient descent.  Using the Multibatch method we train a deep convolutional neural network that achieves an accuracy of $98.2\%$ on the LFW benchmark, while its prediction runtime takes only $30$msec on a single ARM Cortex A9 core. Furthermore, the entire training process took only 12 hours on a single Titan X GPU.
Convergence guarantees for kernel-based quadrature rules in misspecified settings,Kernel-based quadrature rules are becoming important in machine learning and statistics, as they achieve super-$sqrt{n}$ convergence rates in numerical integration, and thus provide alternatives to Monte Carlo integration in challenging settings where integrands are expensive to evaluate or where integrands are high dimensional. These rules are based on the assumption that the integrand has a certain degree of smoothness, which is expressed as that the integrand belongs to a certain reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS). However, this assumption can be violated in practice (e.g., when the integrand is a black box function), and no general theory has been established for the convergence of kernel quadratures in such misspecified settings. Our contribution is in proving that kernel quadratures can be consistent even when the integrand does not belong to the assumed RKHS, i.e.,  when the integrand is less smooth than assumed. Specifically, we derive convergence rates that depend on the (unknown) lesser smoothness of the integrand, where the degree of smoothness is expressed via powers of RKHSs or via Sobolev spaces.
Stochastic Variational Deep Kernel Learning,Deep kernel learning combines the non-parametric flexibility of kernel methods with the inductive biases of deep learning architectures. We propose a novel deep kernel learning model and stochastic variational inference procedure which generalizes deep kernel learning approaches to enable classification, multi-task learning, additive covariance structures, and stochastic gradient training. Specifically, we apply additive base kernels to subsets of output features from deep neural architectures, and jointly learn the parameters of the base kernels and deep network through a Gaussian process marginal likelihood objective.  Within this framework, we derive an efficient form of stochastic variational inference which leverages local kernel interpolation, inducing points, and structure exploiting algebra.  We show improved performance over stand alone deep networks, SVMs, and state of the art scalable Gaussian processes on several classification benchmarks, including an airline delay dataset containing 6 million training points, CIFAR, and ImageNet.
Deep Submodular Functions: Definitions and Learning,We propose and study a new class of submodular functions called deep submodular functions (DSFs). We define DSFs and situate them within the broader context of classes of submodular functions in relationship both to various matroid ranks and sums of concave composed with modular functions (SCMs). Notably, we find that DSFs constitute a strictly broader class than SCMs, thus motivating their use, but that they do not comprise all submodular functions.  Interestingly, some DSFs can be seen as special cases of certain deep neural networks (DNNs), hence the name.  Finally, we provide a method to learn DSFs in a max-margin framework, and offer preliminary results applying this both to synthetic and real-world data instances.
Scaled Least Squares Estimator for GLMs in Large-Scale Problems,We study the problem of efficiently estimating the coefficients of generalized linear models (GLMs) in the large-scale setting where the number of observations $n$ is much larger than the number of predictors $p$, i.e. $n\gg p \gg 1$. We show that in GLMs with random (not necessarily Gaussian) design, the GLM coefficients are approximately proportional to the corresponding ordinary least squares (OLS) coefficients. Using this relation, we design an algorithm that achieves the same accuracy as the maximum likelihood estimator (MLE)  through iterations that  attain up to a cubic convergence rate, and that are cheaper than  any batch optimization algorithm by at least a factor of $\mathcal{O}(p)$. We provide theoretical guarantees for our algorithm, and analyze the convergence behavior in terms of data dimensions. % Finally, we demonstrate the performance of  our algorithm through extensive numerical studies  on large-scale real and synthetic datasets, and show that it achieves the highest performance compared to several other widely used optimization algorithms.
High-Rank Matrix Completion and Clustering under Self-Expressive Models,We propose efficient algorithms for simultaneous clustering and completion of incomplete high-dimensional data that lie in a union of low-dimensional subspaces. We cast the problem as finding a completion of the data matrix so that each point can be reconstructed as a linear or affine combination of a few data points. Since the problem is NP-hard, we propose a lifting framework and reformulate the problem as a group-sparse recovery of each incomplete data point in a dictionary built using incomplete data, subject to rank-one constraints. To solve the problem efficiently, we propose a rank pursuit algorithm and a convex relaxation. The solution of our algorithms recover missing entries and provides a similarity matrix for clustering. Our algorithms can deal with both low-rank and high-rank matrices, does not suffer from initialization, does not need to know dimensions of subspaces and can work with a small number of data points. By extensive experiments on synthetic data and real problems of video motion segmentation and completion of motion capture data, we show that when the data matrix is low-rank, our algorithm performs on par with or better than low-rank matrix completion methods, while for high-rank data matrices, our method significantly outperforms existing algorithms.
Stochastic Three-Composite Convex Minimization,We propose a stochastic optimization method for the minimization of the sum of three convex functions, one of which has Lipschitz continuous gradient as well as restricted strong convexity. Our approach is most suitable in the setting where it is computationally advantageous to process smooth term in the decomposition with its stochastic gradient estimate and the other two functions separately with their proximal operators, such as doubly regularized empirical risk minimization problems. We prove the convergence characterization of the proposed algorithm in expectation under the standard assumptions for the stochastic gradient estimate of the smooth term. Our method operates in the primal space and can be considered as a stochastic extension of the three-operator splitting method. Finally, numerical evidence supports the effectiveness of our method in real-world problems.
Tree-Structured Reinforcement Learning for Sequential Object Localization,Existing object proposal algorithms usually search for possible object regions over multiple locations and scales \emph{ separately}, which ignore the interdependency among different objects and deviate from the human perception procedure. To incorporate global interdependency between objects into object localization, we propose an effective Tree-structured Reinforcement Learning (Tree-RL) approach to sequentially search for objects by fully exploiting both the current observation and  historical search paths. The Tree-RL approach learns multiple  searching policies through maximizing the long-term reward that reflects localization accuracies over all the objects. Starting with taking the entire image as a proposal, the Tree-RL approach allows the agent to sequentially discover multiple objects via a  tree-structured traversing scheme.  Allowing multiple near-optimal policies, Tree-RL  offers more diversity in search paths and is able to find multiple objects with a single feed-forward pass. Therefore, Tree-RL can better cover different objects with various scales which is quite appealing in the context of object proposal. Experiments on PASCAL VOC 2007 and 2012 validate the effectiveness of the Tree-RL, which can achieve comparable recalls with current object proposal algorithms via much fewer candidate windows.
The non-convex Burer-Monteiro approach works on smooth semidefinite programs,Semidefinite programs (SDP's) can be solved in polynomial time by interior point methods, but scalability can be an issue. To address this shortcoming, over a decade ago, Burer and Monteiro proposed to solve SDP's with few equality constraints via rank-restricted, non-convex surrogates. Remarkably, for some applications, local optimization methods seem to converge to global optima of these non-convex surrogates reliably. Although some theory supports this empirical success, a complete explanation of it remains an open question. In this paper, we consider a class of SDP's which includes applications such as max-cut, community detection in the stochastic block model, robust PCA, phase retrieval and synchronization of rotations. We show that the low-rank Burer-Monteiro formulation of SDP's in that class almost never has any spurious local optima.
Neurons Equipped with Intrinsic Plasticity Learn Stimulus Intensity Statistics,Experience constantly shapes neural circuits through a variety of plasticity mechanisms. While the functional roles of some plasticity mechanisms are well-understood, it remains unclear how changes in neural excitability contribute to learning. Here, we develop a normative interpretation of intrinsic plasticity (IP) as a key component of unsupervised learning. We introduce a novel generative mixture model that accounts for the class-specific statistics of stimulus intensities, and we derive a neural circuit that learns the input classes and their intensities. We will analytically show that inference and learning for our generative model can be achieved by a neural circuit with intensity-sensitive neurons equipped with a specific form of IP. Numerical experiments verify our analytical derivations and show robust behavior for artificial and natural stimuli. Our results link IP to non-trivial input statistics, in particular the statistics of stimulus intensities for classes to which a neuron is sensitive. More generally, our work paves the way toward new classification algorithms that are robust to intensity variations.
Greedy Feature Construction,We present an effective method for supervised feature construction. The main goal of the approach is to construct a feature representation for which a set of linear hypotheses is of sufficient capacity -- large enough to contain a satisfactory solution to the considered problem and small enough to allow good generalization from a small number of training examples. We achieve this goal with a greedy procedure that constructs features by empirically fitting squared error residuals. The proposed constructive procedure is consistent and can output a rich set of features. The effectiveness of the approach is evaluated empirically by fitting a linear ridge regression model in the constructed feature space and our empirical results indicate a superior performance of our approach over competing methods.
Dynamic Mode Decomposition with Reproducing Kernels for Koopman Spectral Analysis,A spectral analysis of the Koopman operator, which is an infinite dimensional linear operator on an observable, gives a (modal) description of the global behavior of a nonlinear dynamical system without any explicit prior knowledge of its governing equations. In this paper, we consider a spectral analysis of the Koopman operator in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS). We propose a modal decomposition algorithm to perform the analysis using finite-length data sequences generated from a nonlinear system. The algorithm is in essence reduced to the calculation of a set of orthogonal bases for the Krylov matrix in RKHS and the eigendecomposition of the projection of the Koopman operator onto the subspace spanned by the bases. The algorithm returns a decomposition of the dynamics into a finite number of modes, and thus it can be thought of as a feature extraction procedure for a nonlinear dynamical system. Therefore, we further consider applications in machine learning using extracted features with the presented analysis. We illustrate the method on the applications using synthetic and real-world data.
Learning the Number of Neurons in Deep Networks,Nowadays, the number of layers and of neurons in each layer of a deep network are typically set manually. While very deep and wide networks have proven effective in general, they come at a high memory and computation cost, thus making them impractical for constrained platforms. These networks, however, are known to have many redundant parameters, and could thus, in principle, be replaced by more compact architectures. In this paper, we introduce an approach to automatically determining the number of neurons in each layer of a deep network during learning. To this end, we propose to make use of a group sparsity regularizer on the parameters of the network, where each group is defined to act on a single neuron. Starting from an overcomplete network, we show that our approach can reduce the number of parameters by up to 80\% while retaining or even improving the network accuracy.
Strategic Attentive Writer for Learning Macro-Actions,We present a novel deep recurrent neural network architecture that learns to build implicit plans in an end-to-end manner purely by interacting with an environment in reinforcement learning setting. The network builds an internal plan, which is continuously updated upon observation of the next input from the environment. It can also partition this internal representation into contiguous sub-sequences by learning for how long the plan can be committed to -- i.e. followed without replaning. Combining these properties, the proposed model, dubbed STRategic Attentive Writer (STRAW) can learn high-level, temporally abstracted macro-actions of varying lengths that are solely learnt from data without any prior information.  These macro-actions enable both structured exploration and economic computation. We experimentally demonstrate that STRAW delivers strong improvements on  several ATARI games by employing temporally extended planning strategies (e.g. Ms. Pacman and Frostbite). It is at the same time a general algorithm that can be applied on any sequence data. To that end, we also show that when trained on text prediction task, STRAW naturally predicts frequent n-grams (instead of macro-actions), demonstrating the generality of the approach.
Active Learning from Imperfect Labelers,We study active learning where the labeler can not only return incorrect labels but also abstain from labeling. We consider different noise and abstention conditions of the labeler. We propose an algorithm which utilizes abstention responses, and analyze its statistical consistency and query complexity under fairly natural assumptions on the noise and abstention rate of the labeler. This algorithm is adaptive in a sense that it can automatically request less queries with a more informed or less noisy labeler. We couple our algorithm with lower bounds to show that under some technical conditions, it achieves nearly optimal query complexity.
Probabilistic Linear Multistep Methods,We present a derivation and theoretical investigation of the Adams-Bashforth and Adams-Moulton family of linear multistep methods for solving ordinary differential equations, starting from a Gaussian process (GP) framework. In the limit, this formulation coincides with the classical deterministic methods, which have been used as higher-order initial value problem solvers for over a century. Furthermore, the natural probabilistic framework provided by the GP formulation allows us to derive probabilistic versions of these methods, in the spirit of a number of other probabilistic ODE solvers presented in the recent literature. In contrast to higher-order Runge-Kutta methods, which require multiple intermediate function evaluations per step, Adams family methods make use of previous function evaluations, so that increased accuracy arising from a higher-order multistep approach comes at very little additional computational cost. We show that through a careful choice of covariance function for the GP, the posterior mean and standard deviation over the numerical solution can be made to exactly coincide with the value given by the deterministic method and its local truncation error respectively. We provide a rigorous proof of the convergence of these new methods, as well as an empirical investigation (up to fifth order) demonstrating their convergence rates in practice.
More Supervision, Less Computation: Statistical-Computational Tradeoffs in Weakly Supervised Learning,We consider the weakly supervised binary classification problem where the labels are randomly flipped with probability $1-\alpha$. Although there exist numerous algorithms for this problem, it remains theoretically unexplored how the statistical accuracies and computational efficiency of these algorithms depend on the degree of supervision, which is quantified by $\alpha$. In this paper, we characterize the effect of $\alpha$ by establishing the information-theoretic and computational boundaries, namely, the minimax-optimal statistical accuracy that can be achieved by all algorithms, and polynomial-time algorithms under an oracle computational model. For small $\alpha$, our result shows a gap between these two boundaries, which represents the computational price of achieving the information-theoretic boundary due to the lack of supervision. Interestingly, we also show that this gap narrows as $\alpha$ increases. In other words, having more supervision, i.e., more correct labels, not only improves the optimal statistical accuracy as expected, but also enhances the computational efficiency for achieving such accuracy.
Mutual information for symmetric rank-one matrix estimation: A proof of the replica formula,Factorizing low-rank matrices has many applications in machine learning and statistics. For probabilistic models in the Bayes optimal setting, a general expression for the mutual information has been proposed using heuristic statistical physics computations, and proven in few specific cases. Here, we show how to rigorously prove the conjectured formula for the symmetric rank-one case. This allows to express the minimal mean-square-error and to characterize the detectability phase transitions in a large set of estimation problems ranging from community detection to sparse PCA. We also show that for a large set of parameters, an iterative algorithm called approximate message-passing is Bayes optimal. There exists, however, a gap between what currently known polynomial algorithms can do and what is expected information theoretically. Additionally, the proof technique has an interest of its own and exploits three essential ingredients: the interpolation method introduced in statistical physics by Guerra, the analysis of the approximate message-passing algorithm and the theory of spatial coupling and threshold saturation in coding. Our approach is generic and applicable to other open problems in statistical estimation where heuristic statistical physics predictions are available.
Coin Betting and Parameter-Free Online Learning,In the recent years, a number of parameter-free algorithms have been developed for online linear optimization over Hilbert spaces and for learning with expert advice.  These algorithms achieve optimal regret bounds that depend on the unknown competitors, without having to tune the learning rates with oracle choices.  We present a new intuitive framework to design parameter-free algorithms for both online linear optimization over Hilbert spaces and for learning with expert advice, based on reductions to betting on outcomes of adversarial coins. We instantiate it using a betting algorithm based on the Krichevsky-Trofimov estimator.  The resulting algorithms are simple, with no parameters to be tuned, and they improve or match previous results in terms of regret guarantee and per-round complexity.
Normalized Spectral Map Synchronization,The algorithmic advancement of synchronizing maps is important in order to solve a wide range of practice problems  with possible large-scale dataset. In this paper, we provide theoretical justifications for spectral techniques for the map synchronization problem, i.e., it takes as input a collection of objects and noisy maps estimated between pairs of objects, and outputs clean maps between all pairs of objects. We show that a simple normalized spectral method that projects the blocks of the top eigenvectors of a data matrix to the map space leads to surprisingly good results. As the noise is modelled naturally as random permutation matrix, this algorithm NormSpecSync leads to competing theoretical guarantees as state-of-the-art convex optimization techniques, yet it is much more efficient. We demonstrate the usefulness of our algorithm in a couple of applications, where it is optimal in both complexity and exactness among existing methods.
On Explore-Then-Commit strategies,We study the problem of minimising regret in two-armed bandit problems with Gaussian rewards. Our objective is to use this simple setting to illustrate that strategies based on an exploration phase (up to a stopping time) followed by exploitation are necessarily suboptimal. The results hold regardless of whether or not the difference in means between the two arms is known. Besides the main message, we also refine existing deviation inequalities, which allow us to design fully sequential strategies with finite-time regret guarantees that are (a) asymptotically optimal as the horizon grows and (b) order-optimal in the minimax sense. Furthermore we provide empirical evidence that the theory also holds in practice and discuss extensions to non-gaussian and multiple-armed case.
Learning Kernels with Random Features,Randomized features provide a computationally efficient way to approximate kernel machines in machine learning tasks. However, such methods require a user-defined kernel as input. We extend the randomized-feature approach to the task of learning a kernel (via its associated random features). Specifically, we present an efficient optimization problem that learns a kernel in a supervised manner. We prove the consistency of the estimated kernel as well as generalization bounds for the class of estimators induced by the optimized kernel, and we experimentally evaluate our technique on several datasets. Our approach is efficient and highly scalable, and we attain competitive results with a fraction of the training cost of other techniques.
Robustness of classifiers: from adversarial to random noise,Several recent works have shown that state-of-the-art classifiers are vulnerable to worst-case (i.e., adversarial) perturbations of the datapoints. On the other hand, it has been empirically observed that these same classifiers are relatively robust to random noise. In this paper, we propose to study a semi-random noise regime that generalizes both the random and worst-case noise regimes. We propose the first quantitative analysis of the robustness of nonlinear classifiers in this general noise regime. We establish precise theoretical bounds on the robustness of classifiers in this general regime, which depend on the curvature of the classifier's decision boundary. Our bounds confirm and quantify the empirical observations that classifiers satisfying curvature constraints are robust to random noise. Moreover, we quantify the robustness of classifiers in terms of the subspace dimension in the semi-random noise regime, and show that our bounds remarkably interpolate between the worst-case and random noise regimes. We perform experiments and show that the derived bounds provide very accurate estimates when applied to various state-of-the-art deep neural networks and datasets. This result suggests bounds on the curvature of the classifiers' decision boundaries that we support experimentally, and more generally offers important insights onto the geometry of high dimensional classification problems.
Adaptive Skills Adaptive Partitions (ASAP),We introduce the Adaptive Skills, Adaptive Partitions (ASAP) framework that (1) learns skills (i.e., temporally extended actions or options) as well as (2) where to apply them. We believe that both (1) and (2) are necessary for a truly general skill learning framework, which is a key building block needed to scale up to lifelong learning agents. The ASAP framework is also able to  solve related new tasks simply by adapting where it applies its existing learned skills. We prove that ASAP converges to a local optimum under natural conditions. Finally, our experimental results, which include a RoboCup domain, demonstrate the ability of ASAP to learn where to reuse skills as well as solve multiple tasks with considerably less experience than solving each task from scratch.
Gaussian Process Bandit Optimisation with Multi-fidelity Evaluations,In many scientific and engineering applications, we are tasked with the optimisation of an expensive to evaluate black box function $\func$. Traditional methods for this problem assume just the availability of this single function. However, in many cases, cheap approximations to $\func$ may be obtainable. For example, the expensive real world behaviour of a robot can be approximated by a cheap computer simulation. We can use these approximations to eliminate low function value regions cheaply and use the expensive evaluations of $\func$ in a small but promising region and speedily identify the optimum. We formalise this task as a \emph{multi-fidelity} bandit problem where the target function and its approximations are sampled from a Gaussian process. We develop \mfgpucb, a novel method based on upper confidence bound techniques. In our theoretical analysis we demonstrate that it exhibits precisely the above behaviour, and achieves better regret than strategies which ignore multi-fidelity information. \mfgpucbs outperforms such naive strategies and other multi-fidelity methods  on several synthetic and real experiments.
Flexible Models for Microclustering with Application to Entity Resolution,Most generative models for clustering implicitly assume that the number of data points in each cluster grows linearly with the total number of data points. Finite mixture models, Dirichlet process mixture models, and Pitman--Yor process mixture models make this assumption, as do all other infinitely exchangeable clustering models. However, for some applications, this assumption is inappropriate. For example, when performing entity resolution, the size of each cluster should be unrelated to the size of the data set, and each cluster should contain a negligible fraction of the total number of data points. These applications require models that yield clusters whose sizes grow sublinearly with the size of the data set. We address this requirement by defining the microclustering property and introducing a new class of models that can exhibit this property. We compare models within this class to two commonly used clustering models using four entity-resolution data sets.
Stochastic Gradient Richardson-Romberg Markov Chain Monte Carlo,Stochastic Gradient Markov Chain Monte Carlo (SG-MCMC) algorithms have become increasingly popular for Bayesian inference in large-scale applications. Even though these methods have proved useful in several scenarios, their performance is often limited by their bias. In this study, we propose a novel sampling algorithm that aims to reduce the bias of SG-MCMC while keeping the variance at a reasonable level. Our approach is based on a numerical sequence acceleration method, namely the Richardson-Romberg extrapolation, which simply boils down   to running almost the same SG-MCMC algorithm twice in parallel with different step sizes. We illustrate our framework on the popular Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics (SGLD) algorithm and propose a novel SG-MCMC algorithm referred to as Stochastic Gradient Richardson-Romberg Langevin Dynamics (SGRRLD). We provide formal theoretical analysis and show that SGRRLD is asymptotically consistent, satisfies a central limit theorem, and its non-asymptotic bias and the mean squared-error can be bounded. Our results show that SGRRLD attains higher rates of convergence than SGLD in both finite-time and asymptotically, and it achieves the theoretical   accuracy of the methods that are based on higher-order integrators. We support our findings using both synthetic and real data experiments.
Online and Differentially-Private Tensor Decomposition,Tensor decomposition is positioned to be a pervasive tool in the era of big data. In this paper, we resolve many of the key algorithmic questions regarding robustness, memory efficiency, and differential privacy of tensor decomposition. We propose simple variants of the tensor power method which enjoy these strong properties. We propose the first streaming method with a linear memory requirement. Moreover, we present a noise calibrated tensor power method with efficient privacy guarantees. At the heart of all these guarantees lies a careful perturbation analysis derived in this paper which improves up on the existing results significantly.
Maximal Sparsity with Deep Networks?,The iterations of many sparse estimation algorithms are comprised of a fixed linear filter cascaded with a thresholding nonlinearity, which collectively resemble a typical neural network layer.  Consequently, a lengthy sequence of algorithm iterations can be viewed as a deep network with shared, hand-crafted layer weights.  It is therefore quite natural to examine the degree to which a learned network model might act as a viable surrogate for traditional sparse estimation in domains where ample training data is available.  While the possibility of a reduced computational budget is readily apparent when a ceiling is imposed on the number of layers, our work primarily focuses on estimation accuracy.  In particular, it is well-known that when a signal dictionary has coherent columns, as quantified by a large RIP constant, then most tractable iterative algorithms are unable to find maximally sparse representations.  In contrast, we demonstrate both theoretically and empirically the potential for a trained deep network to recover minimal $\ell_0$-norm representations in regimes where existing methods fail.  The resulting system, which can effectively learn novel iterative sparse estimation algorithms, is deployed on a practical photometric stereo estimation problem, where the goal is to remove sparse outliers that can disrupt the estimation of surface normals from a 3D scene.
Efficient High-Order Interaction-Aware Feature Selection Based on Conditional Mutual Information,This study introduces a novel feature selection approach CMICOT, which is a further evolution of filter methods with sequential  forward selection (SFS) whose scoring functions are based on conditional mutual information (MI). We state and study a novel saddle point (max-min) optimization problem to build a scoring function that is able to identify joint interactions between several  features. This method fills the gap of MI-based SFS techniques with high-order dependencies. In this high-dimensional case, the estimation of MI has prohibitively high sample complexity. We mitigate this cost using a greedy approximation and binary representatives what makes our technique able to be effectively used. The superiority of our approach is demonstrated by comparison with recently proposed interaction-aware filters and several interaction-agnostic state-of-the-art ones on ten publicly available benchmark datasets.
Geometric Dirichlet Means Algorithm for topic inference,We propose a geometric algorithm for topic learning and inference that is built on the convex geometry of topics arising from the Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) model and its nonparametric extensions. To this end we study the optimization of a geometric loss function, which is a surrogate to the LDA's likelihood. Our method involves a fast optimization based weighted clustering procedure augmented with geometric corrections, which overcomes the computational and statistical inefficiencies encountered by other techniques based on Gibbs sampling and variational inference, while achieving the accuracy comparable to that of a Gibbs sampler. The topic estimates produced by our method are shown to be statistically consistent under some conditions. The algorithm is evaluated with extensive experiments on simulated and real data.
Interaction Screening: Efficient and Sample-Optimal Learning of Ising Models,We consider the problem of learning the underlying graph of an unknown Ising model on p spins from a collection of i.i.d. samples generated from the model. We suggest a new estimator that is computationally efficient and requires a number of samples that is near-optimal with respect to previously established information theoretic lower-bound. Our statistical estimator has a physical interpretation in terms of "interaction screening". The estimator is consistent and is efficiently implemented using convex optimization. We prove that with appropriate regularization, the estimator recovers the underlying graph using a number of samples that is logarithmic in the system size p and exponential in the maximum coupling-intensity and maximum node-degree.
Multi-armed Bandits: Competing with Optimal Sequences,We consider sequential decision making problem in the adversarial setting, where regret is measured with respect to the optimal sequence of actions and the feedback adheres the bandit setting. It is well-known that obtaining sublinear regret in this setting is impossible in general, which arises the question of when can we do better than linear regret? Previous works show that when the environment is guaranteed to vary slowly and furthermore we are given prior knowledge regarding its variation (i.e., a limit on the amount of changes suffered by the environment), then this task is feasible. The caveat however is that such prior knowledge is not likely to be available in practice, which causes the obtained regret bounds to be somewhat irrelevant.   Our main result is a regret guarantee that scales with the variation parameter of the environment, without requiring any prior knowledge about it whatsoever. By that, we also resolve an open problem posted by [Gur, Zeevi and Besbes, NIPS' 14]. An important key component in our result is a statistical test for identifying non-stationarity in a sequence of independent random variables. This test either identifies non-stationarity or upper-bounds the absolute deviation of the corresponding sequence of mean values in terms of its total variation. This test is interesting on its own right and has the potential to be found useful in additional settings.
Catching heuristics are optimal control policies,Two seemingly contradictory theories attempt to explain how humans move to intercept an airborne ball. One theory posits that humans predict the ball trajectory to optimally plan future actions; the other claims that, instead of performing such complicated computations, humans employ heuristics to reactively choose appropriate actions based on immediate visual feedback. In this paper, we show that interception strategies appearing to be heuristics can be understood as computational solutions to the optimal control problem faced by a ball-catching agent acting under uncertainty. Modeling catching as a continuous partially observable Markov decision process and employing stochastic optimal control theory, we discover that the four main heuristics described in the literature are optimal solutions if the catcher has sufficient time to continuously visually track the ball. Specifically, by varying model parameters such as noise, time to ground contact, and perceptual latency, we show that different strategies arise under different circumstances. The catcher's policy switches between generating reactive and predictive behavior based on the ratio of system to observation noise and the ratio between reaction time and task duration. Thus, we provide a rational account of human ball-catching behavior and a unifying explanation for seemingly contradictory theories of target interception on the basis of stochastic optimal control.
Riemannian SVRG: Fast Stochastic Optimization on Riemannian Manifolds,We study optimization of finite sums of \emph{geodesically} smooth functions on Riemannian manifolds. Although variance reduction techniques for optimizing finite-sums have witnessed tremendous attention in the recent years, existing work is limited to vector space problems. We introduce \emph{Riemannian SVRG} (\rsvrg), a new variance reduced Riemannian optimization method. We analyze \rsvrg for both geodesically  \emph{convex} and \emph{nonconvex} (smooth) functions. Our analysis reveals that \rsvrg inherits  advantages of the usual SVRG method, but with factors depending on curvature of the manifold that influence its convergence. To our knowledge, \rsvrg is the first \emph{provably fast} stochastic Riemannian method. Moreover, our paper presents the first non-asymptotic complexity analysis (novel even for the batch setting) for nonconvex Riemannian optimization. Our results have several implications; for instance, they offer a Riemannian perspective on variance reduced PCA, which promises a short, transparent convergence analysis.
A Comprehensive Linear Speedup Analysis for Asynchronous Stochastic Parallel Optimization from Zeroth-Order to First-Order,Asynchronous parallel optimization received substantial successes and extensive attention recently. One of core theoretical questions is how much speedup (or benefit) the asynchronous parallelization can bring to us. This paper provides a comprehensive and generic analysis to study the speedup property for a broad range of asynchronous parallel stochastic algorithms from the zeroth order to the first order methods. Our result recovers or improves existing analysis on special cases, provides more insights for understanding the asynchronous parallel behaviors, and suggests a novel asynchronous parallel zeroth order method for the first time. Our experiments provide novel applications of the proposed asynchronous parallel zeroth order method on hyper parameter tuning and model blending problems.
Stochastic Gradient MCMC with Stale Gradients,Stochastic gradient MCMC (SG-MCMC) has played an important role in large-scale Bayesian learning, with well-developed theoretical convergence properties. In such applications of SG-MCMC, it is becoming increasingly popular to employ distributed systems, where stochastic gradients are computed based on some outdated parameters, yielding what are termed stale gradients. While stale gradients could be directly used in SG-MCMC, their impact on convergence properties has not been well studied. In this paper we develop theory to show that while the bias and MSE of an SG-MCMC algorithm depend on the staleness of stochastic gradients, its estimation variance (relative to the expected estimate, based on a prescribed number of samples) is independent of it. In a simple Bayesian distributed system with SG-MCMC, where stale gradients are computed asynchronously by a set of workers, our theory indicates a linear speedup on the decrease of estimation variance w.r.t. the number of workers. Experiments on synthetic data and deep neural networks validate our theory, demonstrating the effectiveness and scalability of SG-MCMC with stale gradients.
Disentangling factors of variation in deep representation using adversarial training,We propose a deep generative model for learning to distill the hidden factors of variation within a set of labeled observations into two complementary codes. One code describes the factors of variation relevant to solving a specified task. The other code describes the remaining factors of variation that are irrelevant to solving this task. The only available source of supervision during the training process comes from our ability to distinguish among different observations belonging to the same category. Concrete examples include multiple images of the same object from different viewpoints, or multiple speech samples from the same speaker. In both of these instances, the factors of variation irrelevant to classification are implicitly expressed by intra-class variabilities, such as the relative position of an object in an image, or the linguistic content of an utterance. Most existing approaches for solving this problem rely heavily on having access to pairs of observations only sharing a single factor of variation, e.g. different objects observed in the exact same conditions. This assumption is often not encountered in realistic settings where data acquisition is not controlled and labels for the uninformative components are not available. In this work, we propose to overcome this limitation by augmenting deep convolutional autoencoders with a form of adversarial training. Both factors of variation are implicitly captured in the organization of the learned embedding space, and can be used for solving single-image analogies.  Experimental results on synthetic and real datasets show that the proposed method is capable of disentangling the influences of style and content factors using a flexible representation, as well as generalizing to unseen styles or content classes.
Consistent Kernel Mean Estimation for Functions of Random Variables,We provide a theoretical foundation for non-parametric estimation of functions of random variables using kernel mean embeddings. We show that for any continuous function f, consistent estimators of the mean embedding of a random variable X lead to consistent estimators of the mean embedding of f(X). For Matern kernels and sufficiently smooth functions we also provide rates of convergence.  Our results extend to functions of multiple random variables. If the variables are dependent, we require an estimator of the mean embedding of their joint distribution as a starting point; if they are independent, it is sufficient to have separate estimators of the mean embeddings of their marginal distributions. In either case, our results cover both mean embeddings based on i.i.d. samples as well as "reduced set" expansions in terms of dependent expansion points. The latter serves as a justification for using such expansions to limit memory resources when applying the approach as a basis for probabilistic programming.
DECOrrelated feature space partitioning for distributed sparse regression,Fitting statistical models is computationally challenging when the sample size or the dimension of the dataset is huge. An attractive approach for down-scaling the problem size is to first partition the dataset into subsets and then fit using distributed algorithms. The dataset can be partitioned either horizontally (in the sample space) or vertically (in the feature space). While the majority of the literature focuses on sample space partitioning, feature space partitioning is more effective when p >> n. Existing methods for partitioning features, however, are either vulnerable to high correlations or inefficient in reducing the model dimension. In this paper, we solve these problems through a new embarrassingly parallel framework named DECO for distributed variable selection and parameter estimation. In DECO, variables are first partitioned and allocated to m distributed workers. The decorrelated subset data within each worker are then fitted via any algorithm designed for high-dimensional problems. We show that by incorporating the decorrelation step, DECO can achieve consistent variable selection and parameter estimation on each subset with (almost) no assumptions. In addition, the convergence rate is nearly minimax optimal for both sparse and weakly sparse models and does NOT depend on the partition number m. Extensive numerical experiments are provided to illustrate the performance of the new framework.
Coupled Generative Adversarial Networks,We propose the coupled generative adversarial nets (CoGAN) framework for generating pairs of corresponding images in two different domains. The framework consists of a pair of generative adversarial nets, each responsible for generating images in one domain. We show that by enforcing a simple weight-sharing constraint, the CoGAN learns to generate pairs of corresponding images without existence of any pairs of corresponding images in the two domains in the training set. In other words, the CoGAN learns a joint distribution of images in the two domains from images drawn separately from the marginal distributions of the individual domains. This is in contrast to the existing multi-modal generative models, which require corresponding images for training. We apply the CoGAN to several pair image generation tasks. For each task, the CoGAN learns to generate convincing pairs of corresponding images. We further demonstrate the applications of the CoGAN framework for the domain adaptation and cross-domain image generation tasks.
Matching Networks for One Shot Learning,Learning from a few examples remains a key challenge in machine learning. Despite recent advances in important domains such as vision and language, the standard supervised deep learning paradigm does not offer a satisfactory solution for learning new concepts rapidly from little data. In this work, we employ ideas from metric learning based on deep neural features and from recent advances that augment neural networks with external memories. Our framework learns a network that maps a small labelled support set and an unlabelled example to its label, obviating the need for fine-tuning to adapt to new class types. We then define one-shot learning problems on vision (using Omniglot, ImageNet) and language tasks. Our algorithm improves one-shot accuracy on ImageNet from 82.2% to 87.8% and from 88% accuracy to 95% accuracy on Omniglot compared to competing approaches. We also demonstrate the usefulness of the same model on language modeling by introducing a one-shot task on the Penn Treebank.
Distributed Flexible Nonlinear Tensor Factorization,Tensor factorization is a powerful tool to analyse multi-way data. Recently proposed nonlinear factorization methods, although capable of capturing complex relationships, are computationally quite expensive and may suffer a severe learning bias in case of extreme data sparsity. Therefore, we propose a distributed, flexible nonlinear tensor factorization model, which avoids the expensive computations and structural restrictions of the Kronecker-product in the existing TGP formulations, allowing an arbitrary subset of tensor entries to be selected for training. Meanwhile, we derive a tractable and tight variational evidence lower bound (ELBO) that enables highly decoupled, parallel computations and high-quality inference. Based on the new bound, we develop a distributed, key-value-free inference algorithm in the MapReduce framework, which can fully exploit the memory cache mechanism in fast MapReduce systems such as Spark. Experiments demonstrate the advantages of our method over several state-of-the-art approaches, in terms of both predictive performance and computational efficiency.
Tracking the Best Expert in Non-stationary Stochastic Environments,We study the dynamic regret of multi-armed bandit and experts problem in non-stationary stochastic environments. We introduce a new parameter $\W$, which measures the total statistical variance of the loss distributions over $T$ rounds of the process, and study how this amount affects the regret. We investigate the interaction between $\W$ and $\Gamma$, which counts the number of times the distributions change, as well as $\W$ and $V$, which measures how far the distributions deviates over time. One striking result we find is that even when $\Gamma$, $V$, and $\Lambda$ are all restricted to constant, the regret lower bound in the bandit setting still grows with $T$. The other highlight is that in the full-information setting, a constant regret becomes achievable with constant $\Gamma$ and $\Lambda$, as it can be made independent of $T$, while with constant $V$ and $\Lambda$, the regret still has a $T^{1/3}$ dependency. We not only propose algorithms with upper bound guarantee, but prove their matching lower bounds as well.
Deep Alternative Neural Network: Exploring Contexts as Early as Possible for Action Recognition,Contexts are crucial for action recognition in video. Current methods often mine contexts after extracting hierarchical local features and focus on their high-order encodings. This paper instead explores contexts as early as possible and leverages their evolutions for action recognition. In particular, we introduce a novel architecture called deep alternative neural network (DANN) stacking alternative layers. Each alternative layer consists of a volumetric convolutional layer followed by a recurrent layer. The former acts as local feature learner while the latter is used to collect contexts. Compared with feed-forward neural networks, DANN learns contexts of local features from the very beginning. This setting helps to preserve hierarchical context evolutions which we show are essential to recognize similar actions. Besides, we present an adaptive method to determine the temporal size for network input based on optical flow energy, and develop a volumetric pyramid pooling layer to deal with input clips of arbitrary sizes. We demonstrate the advantages of DANN on two benchmarks HMDB51 and UCF101 and report competitive or superior results to the state-of-the-art.
Learning Parametric Sparse Models for Image Super-Resolution,Learning accurate prior knowledge of natural images is of great importance for single image super-resolution (SR). Existing SR methods either learn the prior from the low/high-resolution patch pairs or estimate the prior models from the input low-resolution (LR) image. Specifically, high-frequency details are learned in the former methods. Though effective, they are heuristic and have limitations in dealing with blurred LR images; while the latter suffers from the limitations of frequency aliasing. In this paper, we propose to combine those two lines of ideas for image super-resolution. More specifically, the parametric sparse prior of the desirable high-resolution (HR) image patches are learned from both the input low-resolution (LR) image and a training image dataset. With the learned sparse priors, the sparse codes and thus the HR image patches can be accurately recovered by solving a sparse coding problem. Experimental results show that the proposed SR method outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods in terms of both subjective and objective image qualities.
Kernel Observers: Systems-Theoretic Modeling and Inference of Spatiotemporally Evolving Processes,We consider the problem of estimating the latent state of a spatiotemporally evolving continuous function using very few sensor measurements. We show that layering a dynamical systems prior over temporal evolution of weights of a kernel model is a valid approach to spatiotemporal modeling that does not necessarily require the design of complex nonstationary kernels. Furthermore, we show that such a predictive model can be utilized to determine sensing locations that guarantee that the hidden state of the phenomena can be recovered with very few measurements. We provide sufficient conditions on the number and spatial location of samples required to guarantee state recovery, and provide a lower bound on the minimum number of samples required to robustly infer the hidden states. Our approach outperforms existing methods in numerical experiments.
Learning brain regions via large-scale online structured sparse dictionary learning,We propose a multivariate online dictionary-learning method for obtaining decompositions of brain images with structured and sparse components (aka atoms). Sparsity is to be understood in the usual sense: the dictionary atoms are constrained to contain mostly zeros. This is imposed via an $\ell_1$-norm constraint. By "structured", we mean that the atoms are piece-wise smooth and compact, thus making up blobs, as opposed to scattered patterns of activation. We propose to use a Sobolev (Laplacian) penalty to impose this type of structure. Combining the two penalties, we obtain decompositions that properly delineate brain structures from functional images. This non-trivially extends the online dictionary-learning  work of Mairal et al. (2010), at the price of only a factor of 2 or 3 on the overall running time. Just like the Mairal et al. (2010) reference method, the online nature of our proposed algorithm allows it to scale to arbitrarily sized datasets. Experiments on brain data show that our proposed method extracts structured and denoised dictionaries that are more intepretable and better capture inter-subject variability in small medium, and large-scale regimes alike, compared to state-of-the-art models.
Scaling Factorial Hidden Markov Models: Stochastic Variational Inference without Messages,Factorial Hidden Markov Models (FHMMs) are powerful models for sequential data but they do not scale well with long sequences. We propose a scalable inference and learning algorithm for FHMMs that draws on ideas from the stochastic variational inference, neural network and copula literatures. Unlike existing approaches, the proposed algorithm requires no message passing procedure among latent variables and can be distributed to a network of computers to speed up learning. Our experiments corroborate that the proposed algorithm does not introduce further approximation bias compared to the proven structured mean-field algorithm, and achieves better performance with long sequences and large FHMMs.
A Bandit Framework for Strategic Regression,We consider a learner's problem of acquiring data dynamically for training a regression model, where the training data are collected from strategic data sources. A fundamental challenge is to incentivize data holders to exert effort to improve the quality of their reported data, despite that the quality is not directly verifiable by the learner. In this work, we study a dynamic data acquisition process where data holders can contribute multiple times. Using a bandit framework, we leverage on the long-term incentive of future job opportunities to incentivize high-quality contributions. We propose a Strategic Regression-Upper Confidence Bound (SR-UCB) framework, an UCB-style index combined with a simple payment rule, where the index of a worker approximates the quality of his past contributions and is used by the learner to determine whether the worker receives future work. For linear regression and certain family of non-linear regression problems, we show that SR-UCB enables a $O(\sqrt{\log T/T})$-Bayesian Nash Equilibrium (BNE) where each worker exerting a target effort level that the learner has chosen, with $T$ being the number of data acquisition stages. The SR-UCB framework also has some other desirable properties: (1) The indexes can be updated in an online fashion (hence computationally light). (2) A slight variant, namely Private SR-UCB (PSR-UCB), is able to preserve $(O(\log^{-1} T), O(\log^{-1} T))$-differential privacy for workers' data, with only a small compromise on incentives (achieving $O(\log^{6} T/\sqrt{T})$-BNE).
Convolutional Neural Networks on Graphs with Fast Localized Spectral Filtering,In this work, we are interested in generalizing convolutional neural networks (CNNs) from low-dimensional regular grids, where image, video and speech are represented, to high-dimensional irregular domains, such as social networks, brain connectomes or words embedding, represented by graphs. We present a formulation of CNNs in the context of spectral graph theory, which provides the necessary mathematical background and efficient numerical schemes to design fast localized convolutional filters on graphs. Importantly, the proposed technique offers the same linear computational complexity and constant learning complexity as classical CNNs, while being universal to any graph structure. Experiments on MNIST and 20NEWS demonstrate the ability of this novel deep learning system to learn local, stationary, and compositional features on graphs.
Stein Variational Gradient Descent: A General Purpose Bayesian Inference Algorithm,We propose a general purpose variational inference algorithm that forms a natural counterpart of gradient descent for optimization. Our method iteratively transports a set of particles to match the target distribution, by applying a form of functional gradient descent that minimizes the KL divergence. Empirical studies are performed on various real world models and datasets, on which our method is competitive with existing state-of-the-art methods. The derivation of our method is based on a new theoretical result that connects the derivative of KL divergence under smooth transforms with Steins identity and a recently proposed kernelized Stein discrepancy, which is of independent interest.
Deep Learning Models of the Retinal Response to Natural Scenes,A central challenge in sensory neuroscience is to understand neural computations and circuit mechanisms that underlie the encoding of ethologically relevant, natural stimuli. In multilayered neural circuits, nonlinear processes such as synaptic transmission and spiking dynamics present a significant obstacle to the creation of accurate computational models of responses to natural stimuli. Here we demonstrate that deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) capture retinal responses to natural scenes nearly to within the variability of a cell's response, and are markedly more accurate than linear-nonlinear (LN) models and Generalized Linear Models (GLMs). Moreover, we find two additional surprising properties of CNNs: they are less susceptible to overfitting than their LN counterparts when trained on small amounts of data, and generalize better when tested on stimuli drawn from a different distribution (e.g. between natural scenes and white noise). An examination of the learned CNNs reveals several properties.  First, a richer set of feature maps is necessary for predicting the responses to natural scenes compared to white noise.  Second, temporally precise responses to slowly varying inputs originate from feedforward inhibition, similar to known retinal mechanisms. Third, the injection of latent noise sources in intermediate layers enables our model to capture the sub-Poisson spiking variability observed in retinal ganglion cells.  Fourth, augmenting our CNNs with recurrent lateral connections enables them to capture contrast adaptation as an emergent property of accurately describing retinal responses to natural scenes.  These methods can be readily generalized to other sensory modalities and stimulus ensembles. Overall, this work demonstrates that CNNs not only accurately capture sensory circuit responses to natural scenes, but also can yield information about the circuit's internal structure and function.
Safe and Efficient Off-Policy Reinforcement Learning,In this work, we take a fresh look at some old and new algorithms for off-policy, return-based reinforcement learning. Expressing these in a common form, we derive a novel algorithm, Retrace(lambda), with three desired properties: (1) it has low variance; (2) it safely uses samples collected from any behaviour policy, whatever its degree of "off-policyness"; and (3) it is efficient as it makes the best use of samples collected from near on-policy behaviour policies. We analyse the contractive nature of the related operator under both off-policy policy evaluation and control settings and derive online sample-based algorithms. We believe this is the first return-based off-policy control algorithm converging a.s. to Q* without the GLIE assumption (Greedy in the Limit with Infinite Exploration). As a corollary, we prove the convergence of Watkins' Q(lambda), which was  an open problem since 1989. We illustrate the benefits of Retrace(lambda) on a standard suite of Atari 2600 games.
Yggdrasil: An Optimized System for Training Deep Decision Trees at Scale,Deep distributed decision trees and tree ensembles have grown in importance due to the need to model increasingly large datasets.  However, PLANET, the standard distributed tree learning algorithm implemented in systems such as \xgboost and Spark MLlib, scales poorly as data dimensionality and tree depths grow.  We present Yggdrasil, a new distributed tree learning method that outperforms existing methods by up to 24x.  Unlike PLANET, Yggdrasil is based on vertical partitioning of the data (i.e., partitioning by feature), along with a set of optimized data structures to reduce the CPU and communication costs of training. Yggdrasil (1) trains directly on compressed data for compressible features and labels; (2) introduces efficient data structures for training on uncompressed data; and (3) minimizes communication between nodes by using sparse bitvectors.  Moreover, while PLANET approximates split points through feature binning, Yggdrasil does not require binning, and we analytically characterize the impact of this approximation. We evaluate Yggdrasil against the MNIST 8M dataset and a high-dimensional dataset at Yahoo; for both, Yggdrasil is faster by up to an order of magnitude.
Sample Complexity of Automated Mechanism Design,The design of revenue-maximizing combinatorial auctions, i.e. multi item auctions over bundles of goods, is one of the most fundamental problems in computational economics, unsolved even for two bidders and two items for sale. In the traditional economic models, it is assumed that the bidders' valuations are drawn from an underlying distribution and that the auction designer has perfect knowledge of this distribution. Despite this strong and oftentimes unrealistic assumption, it is remarkable that the revenue-maximizing combinatorial auction remains unknown. In recent years, automated mechanism design has emerged as one of the most practical and promising approaches to designing high-revenue combinatorial auctions. The most scalable automated mechanism design algorithms take as input samples from the bidders' valuation distribution and then search for a high-revenue auction in a rich auction class. In this work, we provide the first sample complexity analysis for the standard hierarchy of deterministic combinatorial auction classes used in automated mechanism design. In particular, we provide tight sample complexity bounds on the number of samples needed to guarantee that the empirical revenue of the designed mechanism on the samples is close to its expected revenue on the underlying, unknown distribution over bidder valuations, for each of the auction classes in the hierarchy. In addition to helping set automated mechanism design on firm foundations, our results also push the boundaries of learning theory. In particular, the hypothesis functions used in our contexts are defined through multi stage combinatorial optimization procedures, rather than simple decision boundaries, as are common in machine learning.
Deep Exploration via Bootstrapped DQN,Efficient exploration remains a major challenge for reinforcement learning (RL). Common dithering strategies for exploration, such as epsilon-greedy, do not carry out temporally-extended (or deep) exploration; this can lead to exponentially larger data requirements. However, most algorithms for statistically efficient RL are not computationally tractable in complex environments. Randomized value functions offer a promising approach to efficient exploration with generalization, but existing algorithms are not compatible with nonlinearly parameterized value functions. As a first step towards addressing such contexts we develop bootstrapped DQN. We demonstrate that bootstrapped DQN can combine deep exploration with deep neural networks for exponentially faster learning than any dithering strategy. In the Arcade Learning Environment bootstrapped DQN substantially improves learning speed and cumulative performance across most games.
Search Improves Label for Active Learning,We investigate active learning with access to two distinct oracles: LABEL (which is standard) and SEARCH (which is not). The SEARCH oracle models the situation where a human searches a database to seed or counterexample an existing solution. SEARCH is stronger than LABEL while being natural to implement in many situations. We show that an algorithm using both oracles can provide exponentially large problem-dependent improvements over LABEL alone.
Efficient and Robust Spiking Neural Circuit for Navigation Inspired by Echolocating Bats,We demonstrate a spiking neural circuit for azimuth angle detection  inspired by the  echolocation circuits of the Horseshoe bat  Rhinolophus ferrumequinum and utilize it to devise a  model for  navigation and target tracking, capturing several key aspects of information transmission in biology. Our network,  using only  a simple local-information based sensor implementing the cardioid angular gain function, operates at biological  spike rate of  10 Hz.  The network  tracks large angular targets (60 degrees) within 1 sec with a 10%  RMS error. We study the navigational ability of our model for foraging and target localization tasks in  a forest of obstacles  and show that our network requires less than 200X   spike-triggered decisions, while suffering only a 1% loss in performance compared to a  proportional-integral-derivative controller, in the presence of 50% additive noise. Superior performance can be obtained at  a higher average spike rate of  100 Hz  and  1000 Hz, but even the accelerated networks requires 20X and 10X lesser decisions respectively, demonstrating the superior computational efficiency of bio-inspired information processing systems.
Theoretical Comparisons of Positive-Unlabeled Learning against Positive-Negative Learning,In PU learning, a binary classifier is trained from positive (P) and unlabeled (U) data without negative (N) data. Although N data is missing, it sometimes outperforms PN learning (i.e., ordinary supervised learning). Hitherto, neither theoretical nor experimental analysis has been given to explain this phenomenon. In this paper, we theoretically compare PU (and NU) learning against PN learning based on the upper bounds on estimation errors. We find simple conditions when PU and NU learning are likely to outperform PN learning, and we prove that, in terms of the upper bounds, either PU or NU learning (depending on the class-prior probability and the sizes of P and N data) given infinite U data will improve on PN learning. Our theoretical findings well agree with the experimental results on artificial and benchmark data even when the experimental setup does not match the theoretical assumptions exactly.
Quantized Random Projections and Non-Linear Estimation of Cosine Similarity,Random projections constitute a simple, yet effective technique for dimensionality reduction with applications in learning and search problems. In the present paper, we consider the problem of estimating cosine similarities when the projected data undergo scalar quantization to $b$ bits. We here argue that the maximum likelihood estimator (MLE) is a principled approach to deal with the non-linearity resulting from quantization, and subsequently study its computational and statistical properties. A specific focus is on the on the trade-off between bit depth and the number of projections given a fixed budget of bits for storage or transmission. Along the way, we also touch upon the existence of a qualitative counterpart to the Johnson-Lindenstrauss lemma in the presence of quantization.
CNNpack: Packing Convolutional Neural Networks in the Frequency Domain,Deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are successfully used in a number of applications. However, their storage and computational requirements have largely prevented their widespread use on mobile devices. Here we present an effective CNN compression approach in the frequency domain, which focuses not only on smaller weights but on all the weights and their underlying connections. By treating convolutional filters as images, we decompose their representations in the frequency domain as common parts (i.e., cluster centers) shared by other similar filters and their individual private parts (i.e., individual residuals). A large number of low-energy frequency coefficients in both parts can be discarded to produce high compression without significantly compromising accuracy. We relax the computational burden of convolution operations in CNNs by linearly combining the convolution responses of discrete cosine transform (DCT) bases. The compression and speed-up ratios of the proposed algorithm are thoroughly analyzed and evaluated on benchmark image datasets to demonstrate its superiority over state-of-the-art methods.
Verification Based Solution for Structured MAB Problems,We consider the problem of finding the best arm in a stochastic Mutli-armed Bandit (MAB) game and propose a general framework based on verification that applies to multiple well-motivated generalizations of the classic MAB problem. In these generalizations, additional structure is known in advance, causing the task of verifying the optimality of a candidate to be  easier than discovering the best arm. Our results are focused on the scenario where the failure probability $\delta$ must be very low; we essentially show that in this high confidence regime, identifying the best arm is as easy as the task of verification.  We demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework by applying it, and improving the state-of-the art results in the problems of: Linear bandits, Dueling bandits with the Condorcet assumption, Copeland dueling bandits, Unimodal bandits and Graphical bandits.
Neurally-Guided Procedural Models: Amortized Inference for Procedural Graphics Programs using Neural Networks,Probabilistic inference algorithms such as Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) provide powerful tools for constraining procedural models in computer graphics, but they require many samples to produce desirable results. In this paper, we show how to create procedural models which learn how to satisfy constraints. We augment procedural models with neural networks which control how the model makes random choices based on the output it has generated thus far. We call such models neurally-guided procedural models. As a pre-computation, we train these models to maximize the likelihood of example outputs generated via SMC. They are then used as efficient SMC importance samplers, generating high-quality results with very few samples. We evaluate our method on L-system-like models with image-based constraints. Given a desired quality threshold, neurally-guided models can generate satisfactory results up to 10x faster than unguided models.
Edge-exchangeable graphs and sparsity,Many popular network models rely on the assumption of (vertex) exchangeability, in which the distribution of the graph is invariant to relabelings of the vertices. However, the Aldous-Hoover theorem guarantees that these graphs are dense or empty with probability one, whereas many real-world graphs are sparse. We present an alternative notion of exchangeability for random graphs, which we call edge exchangeability, in which the distribution of a graph sequence is invariant to the order of the edges. We demonstrate that edge-exchangeable models, unlike models that are traditionally vertex exchangeable, can exhibit sparsity. To do so, we outline a general framework for graph generative models; by contrast to the pioneering work of Caron and Fox (2015), models within our framework are stationary across steps of the graph sequence. In particular, our model grows the graph by instantiating more latent atoms of a single random measure as the dataset size increases, rather than adding new atoms to the measure.
Learning and Forecasting Opinion Dynamics in Social Networks,Social media and social networking sites have become a global pinboard for exposition and discussion of news, topics, and ideas, where social media users often update their opinions about a particular topic by learning from the opinions shared by their friends. In this context, can we learn a data-driven model of opinion dynamics that is able to accurately forecast users' opinions? In this paper, we introduce SLANT, a probabilistic modeling framework of opinion dynamics, which represents users' opinions over time by means of marked jump  diffusion stochastic differential equations, and allows for efficient model simulation and parameter estimation from historical fine grained event data. We then leverage our framework to derive a set of efficient predictive formulas for opinion forecasting and identify conditions under which opinions converge to a steady state. Experiments on data gathered from Twitter show that our model provides a good fit to the data and our formulas achieve more accurate forecasting than alternatives.
Probing the Compositionality of Intuitive Functions,How do people learn about complex functional structure? Taking inspiration from other areas of cognitive science, we propose that this is accomplished by harnessing compositionality: complex structure is decomposed into simpler building blocks. We formalize this idea within the framework of Bayesian regression using a grammar over Gaussian process kernels. We show that participants prefer compositional over non-compositional function extrapolations, that samples from the human prior over functions are best described by a compositional model, and that people perceive compositional functions as more predictable than their non-compositional but otherwise similar counterparts. We argue that the compositional nature of intuitive functions is consistent with broad principles of human cognition.
Learning shape correspondence with anisotropic convolutional neural networks,Convolutional neural networks have achieved extraordinary results in many computer vision and pattern recognition applications; however, their adoption in the computer graphics and geometry processing communities is limited due to the non-Euclidean structure of their data.  In this paper, we propose Anisotropic Convolutional Neural Network (ACNN), a generalization of classical CNNs to non-Euclidean domains, where classical convolutions are replaced by projections over a set of oriented anisotropic diffusion kernels. We use ACNNs to effectively learn intrinsic dense correspondences between deformable shapes, a fundamental problem in geometry processing, arising in a wide variety of applications. We tested ACNNs performance in very challenging settings, achieving state-of-the-art results on some of the most difficult recent correspondence benchmarks.
Improved Techniques for Training GANs,We present a variety of new architectural features and training procedures that we apply to the generative adversarial networks (GANs) framework. Using our new techniques, we achieve state-of-the-art results in semi-supervised classification on MNIST, CIFAR-10 and SVHN. The generated images are of high quality as confirmed by a visual Turing test: Our model generates MNIST samples that humans cannot distinguish from real data, and CIFAR-10 samples that yield a human error rate of 21.3%. We also present ImageNet samples with unprecedented resolution and show that our methods enable the model to learn recognizable features of ImageNet classes.
Automated scalable segmentation of neurons from multispectral images,Reconstruction of neuroanatomy is a fundamental problem in neuroscience. Stochastic expression of colors in individual cells is a promising tool, although its use in the nervous system has been limited due to various sources of variability in expression. Moreover, the intermingled anatomy of neuronal trees is challenging for existing segmentation algorithms. Here, we propose a method to automate the segmentation of neurons in such (potentially pseudo-colored) images. The method uses spatio-color relations between the voxels, generates supervoxels to reduce the problem size by four orders of magnitude before the final segmentation, and is parallelizable over the supervoxels. To quantify performance and gain insight, we generate simulated images, where the noise level and characteristics, the density of expression, and the number of fluorophore types are variable. We also present segmentations of real Brainbow images of the mouse hippocampus, which reveal many of the dendritic segments.
Optimal Cluster Recovery in the Labeled Stochastic Block Model,We consider the problem of community detection or clustering in the labeled Stochastic Block Model (LSBM) with a finite number $K$ of clusters of sizes linearly growing with the global population of items $n$. Every pair of items is labeled independently at random, and label $\ell$ appears with probability $p(i,j,\ell)$ between two items in clusters indexed by $i$ and $j$, respectively. The objective is to reconstruct the clusters from the observation of these random labels.   Clustering under the SBM and their extensions has attracted much attention recently. Most existing work aimed at characterizing the set of parameters such that it is possible to infer clusters either positively correlated with the true clusters, or with a vanishing proportion of misclassified items, or exactly matching the true clusters. We find  the set of parameters such that there exists a clustering algorithm with at most $s$ misclassified items in average under the general LSBM and for any $s=o(n)$, which solves one open problem raised in \cite{abbe2015community}. We further develop an algorithm, based on simple spectral methods, that achieves this fundamental performance limit within $O(n \mbox{polylog}(n))$ computations and without the a-priori knowledge of the model parameters.
Phased Exploration with Greedy Exploitation in Stochastic Combinatorial Partial Monitoring Games,Partial monitoring games are repeated games where the learner receives feedback that might be different from adversary's move or even the reward gained by the learner. Recently, a general model of combinatorial partial monitoring (CPM) games was proposed \cite{lincombinatorial2014}, where the learner's action space can be exponentially large and adversary samples its moves from a bounded, continuous space, according to a fixed distribution. The paper gave a confidence bound based algorithm (GCB) that achieves $O(T^{2/3}\log T)$ distribution independent and $O(\log T)$ distribution dependent regret bounds. The implementation of their algorithm depends on two separate offline oracles and the distribution dependent regret additionally requires existence of a unique optimal action for the learner. Adopting their CPM model, our first contribution is a Phased Exploration with Greedy Exploitation (PEGE) algorithmic framework for the problem. Different algorithms within the framework achieve $O(T^{2/3}\sqrt{\log T})$ distribution independent and $O(\log^2 T)$ distribution dependent regret respectively. Crucially, our framework needs only the simpler ``argmax'' oracle from GCB and the distribution dependent regret does not require existence of a unique optimal action. Our second contribution is another algorithm, PEGE2, which combines gap estimation with a PEGE algorithm, to achieve an $O(\log T)$ regret bound, matching the GCB guarantee but removing the dependence on size of  the learner's action space. However, like GCB, PEGE2 requires access to both offline oracles and the existence of a unique optimal action. Finally, we discuss how our algorithm can be efficiently applied to a CPM problem of practical interest: namely, online ranking with feedback at the top.
Dual Space Gradient Descent for Online Learning,One crucial goal in kernel online learning is to bound the model size. Common approaches employ budget maintenance procedures to restrict the model sizes using removal, projection, or merging strategies. Although projection and merging, in the literature, are known to be the most effective strategies, they demand extensive computation whilst removal strategy fails to retain information of the removed vectors. An alternative way to address the model size problem is to apply random features to approximate the kernel function. This allows the model to be maintained directly in the random feature space, hence effectively resolve the curse of kernelization. However, this approach still suffers from a serious shortcoming as it needs to use a high dimensional random feature space to achieve a sufficiently accurate kernel approximation. Consequently, it leads to a significant increase in the computational cost. To address all of these aforementioned challenges, we present in this paper the Dual Space Gradient Descent (DualSGD), a novel framework that utilizes random features as an auxiliary space to maintain information from data points removed during budget maintenance. Consequently, our approach permits the budget to be maintained in a simple, direct and elegant way while simultaneously mitigating the impact of the dimensionality issue on learning performance. We further provide convergence analysis and extensively conduct experiments on five real-world datasets to demonstrate the predictive performance and scalability of our proposed method in comparison with the state-of-the-art baselines.
Data Programming: Creating Large Training Sets, Quickly,Large labeled training sets are the critical building blocks of supervised learning methods and are key enablers of deep learning techniques. For some applications, creating labeled training sets is the most time-consuming and expensive part of applying machine learning. We therefore propose a paradigm for the programmatic creation of training sets called data programming in which users provide a set of labeling functions, which are programs that heuristically label subsets of the data, but that are noisy and may conflict. By viewing these labeling functions as implicitly describing a generative model for this noise, we show that we can recover the parameters of this model to "denoise" the generated training set, and establish theoretically that we can recover the parameters of these generative models in a handful of settings. We then show how to modify a discriminative loss function to make it noise-aware, and demonstrate our method over a range of discriminative models including logistic regression and LSTMs. Experimentally, on the 2014 TAC-KBP Slot Filling challenge, we show that data programming would have led to a new winning score, and also show that applying data programming to an LSTM model leads to a TAC-KBP score almost 6 F1 points over a state-of-the-art LSTM baseline (and into second place in the competition). Additionally, in initial user studies we observed that data programming may be an easier way for non-experts to create machine learning models when training data is limited or unavailable.
Near-Optimal Smoothing of Structured Conditional Probability Matrices,Utilizing the structure of a probabilistic model can significantly increase its learning speed. Motivated by several recent applications, in particular bigram models in language processing, we consider learning low-rank conditional probability matrices under expected KL-risk. This choice makes smoothing, that is the careful handling of low-probability elements, paramount. We derive an iterative algorithm that extends classical non-negative matrix factorization to naturally incorporate additive smoothing and prove that it converges to the stationary points of a penalized empirical risk. We then derive sample-complexity bounds for the global minimizer of the penalized risk and show that it is within a small factor of the optimal sample complexity. This framework generalizes to more sophisticated smoothing techniques, including absolute-discounting.
An urn model for majority voting in classification ensembles,In this work we analyze the class prediction of parallel randomized ensembles by majority voting as an urn model. For a given test instance, the ensemble can be viewed as an urn of marbles of different colors. A marble represents an individual classifier. Its color represents the class label prediction of the corresponding classifier. The sequential querying of classifiers in the ensemble can be seen as draws without replacement from the urn. An analysis of this classical urn model based on the hypergeometric distribution makes it possible to estimate the confidence on the outcome of majority voting when only a fraction of the individual predictions is known. These estimates can be used to speed up the prediction by the ensemble. Specifically, the aggregation of votes can be halted when the confidence in the final prediction is sufficiently high. If one assumes a uniform prior for the distribution of possible votes the analysis is shown to be equivalent to a previous one based on Dirichlet distributions. The advantage of the current approach is that prior knowledge on the possible vote outcomes can be readily incorporated in a Bayesian framework. We show how incorporating this type of problem-specific knowledge into the statistical analysis of majority voting leads to faster classification by the ensemble and allows us to estimate the expected average speed-up beforehand.
The Multi-fidelity Multi-armed Bandit,We study a variant of the classical stochastic $K$-armed bandit where observing the outcome of each arm is expensive, but cheap approximations to this outcome are available. For example, in online advertising the performance of an ad can be approximated by displaying it for shorter time periods or to narrower audiences. We formalise this task as a \emph{multi-fidelity} bandit, where, at each time step, the forecaster may choose to play an arm at any one of $M$ fidelities. The highest fidelity (desired outcome) expends cost $\costM$. The $m$\ssth fidelity (an approximation) expends $\costm < \costM$ and returns a biased estimate of the highest fidelity. We develop \mfucb, a novel upper confidence bound procedure for this setting and prove that it naturally adapts to the sequence of available approximations and costs thus attaining better regret than naive strategies which ignore the approximations. For instance, in the above online advertising example, \mfucbs would use the lower fidelities to quickly eliminate suboptimal ads and reserve the larger expensive experiments on a small set of promising candidates. We complement this result with a lower bound and show that \mfucbs is nearly optimal under certain conditions.
Probabilistic Inference with Generating Functions for Poisson Latent Variable Models,Graphical models with latent count variables arise in a number of fields. Standard exact inference techniques such as variable elimination and belief propagation do not apply to these models because the latent variables have countably infinite support. As a result, approximations such as truncation or MCMC are employed. We present the first exact inference algorithms for a class of models with latent count variables by developing a novel representation of countably infinite factors as probability generating functions, and then performing variable elimination with generating functions. Our approach is exact, runs in pseudo-polynomial time, and is much faster than existing approximate techniques. It leads to better parameter estimates for problems in population ecology by avoiding error introduced by approximate likelihood computations.
Adaptive Maximization of Pointwise Submodular Functions With Budget Constraint,We study the worst-case adaptive optimization problem with budget constraint that is useful for modeling various practical applications in artificial intelligence and machine learning. We investigate the near-optimality of greedy algorithms for this problem with both modular and non-modular cost functions. In both cases, we prove that two simple greedy algorithms are not near-optimal but the best between them is near-optimal if the utility function satisfies pointwise submodularity and pointwise cost-sensitive submodularity respectively. This implies a combined algorithm that is near-optimal with respect to the optimal algorithm that uses half of the budget. We discuss applications of our theoretical results and also report experiments comparing the greedy algorithms on the active learning problem.
Dual Learning for Machine Translation,While neural machine translation (NMT) is making good progress in the past two years, tens of millions of bilingual sentence pairs are needed for its training. However, human labeling is very costly. To tackle this training data bottleneck, we develop a dual-learning mechanism, which can enable an NMT system to automatically learn from unlabeled data through a dual-learning game. This mechanism is inspired by the following observation: any machine translation task has a dual task, e.g., English-to-French translation (primal) versus French-to-English translation (dual); the primal and dual tasks can form a closed loop, and generate informative feedback signals to train the translation models, even if without the involvement of a human labeler. In the dual-learning mechanism, we use one agent to represent the model for the primal task and the other agent to represent the model for the dual task, then ask them to teach each other through a reinforcement learning process. Based on the feedback signals generated during this process (e.g., the language-model likelihood of the output of a model, and the reconstruction error of the original sentence after the primal and dual translations), we can iteratively update the two models until convergence (e.g., using the policy gradient methods). We call the corresponding approach to neural machine translation \emph{dual-NMT}. Experiments show that dual-NMT works very well on English$\leftrightarrow$French translation; especially, by learning from monolingual data (with 10\% bilingual data for warm start), it achieves a comparable accuracy to NMT trained from the full bilingual data for the French-to-English translation task.
Iterative Refinement of the Approximate Posterior for Directed Belief Networks,Variational methods that rely on a recognition network to approximate the posterior of directed graphical models offer better inference and learning than previous methods. Recent advances that exploit the capacity and flexibility in this approach have expanded what kinds of models can be trained. However, as a proposal for the posterior, the capacity of the recognition network is limited, which can constrain the representational power of the generative model and increase the variance of Monte Carlo estimates. To address these issues, we introduce an iterative refinement procedure for improving the approximate posterior of the recognition network and show that training with the refined posterior is competitive with state-of-the-art methods. The advantages of refinement are further evident in an increased effective sample size, which implies a lower variance of gradient estimates.
Unsupervised Risk Estimation Using Only Conditional Independence Structure,We show how to estimate a models test error from unlabeled data, on distributions very different from the training distribution, while assuming only that certain conditional independencies are preserved between train and test. We do not need to assume that the optimal predictor is the same between train and test, or that the true distribution lies in any parametric family. We can also efficiently compute gradients of the estimated error and hence perform unsupervised discriminative learning. Our technical tool is the method of moments, which allows us to exploit conditional independencies in the absence of a fully-specified model. Our framework encompasses a large family of losses including the log and exponential loss, and extends to structured output settings such as conditional random fields.
Hierarchical Question-Image Co-Attention for Visual Question Answering,A number of recent works have proposed attention models for Visual Question Answering (VQA) that generate spatial maps highlighting image regions relevant to answering the question. In this paper, we argue that in addition to modeling "where to look" or visual attention, it is equally important to model "what words to listen to" or question attention. We present a novel co-attention model for VQA that jointly reasons about image and question attention. In addition, our model reasons about the question (and consequently the image via the co-attention mechanism) in a hierarchical fashion via a novel 1-dimensional convolution neural networks (CNN). Our model improves the state-of-the-art on the VQA dataset from 60.3% to 60.5%, and from 61.6% to 63.3% on the COCO-QA dataset. By using ResNet, the performance is further improved to 62.1% for VQA and 65.4% for COCO-QA.
Bayesian Optimization with a Finite Budget: An Approximate Dynamic Programming Approach,We consider the problem of optimizing an expensive objective function when a finite budget of total evaluations is prescribed. In that context, the optimal solution strategy for Bayesian optimization can be formulated as a dynamic programming instance. This results in a complex problem with uncountable, dimension-increasing state space and an uncountable control space. We show how to approximate the solution of this dynamic programming problem  using rollout, and propose rollout heuristics specifically designed for the Bayesian optimization setting. We present numerical experiments showing that the resulting algorithm for optimization with a finite budget outperforms several popular Bayesian optimization algorithms.
Learning to learn by gradient descent by gradient descent,The move from hand-designed features to learned features in machine learning has been wildly successful. In spite of this, optimization algorithms are still designed by hand. In this paper we show how the design of an optimization algorithm can be cast as a learning problem, allowing the algorithm to learn to exploit structure in the problems of interest in an automatic way. Our learned algorithms, implemented by LSTMs, outperform generic, hand-designed competitors on the tasks for which they are trained, and also generalize well to new tasks with similar structure. We demonstrate this on a number of tasks, including simple convex problems, training neural networks, and styling images with neural art.
Computational and Statistical Tradeoffs in Learning to Rank,For massive and heterogeneous modern  data sets, it is of fundamental interest to provide guarantees on the accuracy of estimation when computational resources are limited. In the application of learning to rank, we provide a hierarchy of rank-breaking mechanisms ordered by the complexity in thus generated sketch of the data. This allows the number of data points collected to be gracefully traded off against computational resources available, while guaranteeing the desired level of accuracy. Theoretical guarantees on the proposed generalized rank-breaking implicitly provide such trade-offs, which can be explicitly characterized under certain canonical scenarios on the structure of the data.
Pairwise Choice Markov Chains,As datasets capturing human choices grow in richness and scale, particularly in online domains, there is an increasing need for choice models flexible enough to handle data that violate traditional choice-theoretic axioms such as regularity, stochastic transitivity, or Luce's choice axiom. In this work we introduce the Pairwise Choice Markov Chain (PCMC) model of discrete choice, an inferentially tractable model that does not assume these traditional axioms while still satisfying the foundational axiom of uniform expansion, which can be viewed as a weaker version of Luce's axiom. We show that the PCMC model significantly outperforms the Multinomial Logit (MNL) model in prediction tasks on two empirical data sets known to exhibit violations of Luce's axiom. Our analysis also synthesizes several recent observations connecting the Multinomial Logit model and Markov chains; the PCMC model retains the Multinomial Logit model as a special case.
Incremental Variational Sparse Gaussian Process Regression,Recent work on scaling up Gaussian process regression (GPR) to large datasets has primarily focused on sparse GPR, which leverages a small set of basis functions to approximate the full Gaussian process during inference.  However, the majority of these approaches are batch methods that operate on the entire training dataset at once, precluding the use of datasets that are streaming or too large to fit into memory. Although previous work has considered incrementally solving variational sparse GPR, most algorithms fail to update the basis functions and therefore perform suboptimally. We propose a novel incremental learning algorithm for variational sparse GPR based on stochastic mirror ascent of probability densities in reproducing kernel Hilbert space. This new formulation allows our algorithm to update basis functions online in accordance with the manifold structure of probability densities for fast convergence. We conduct several experiments and show that our proposed approach achieves better empirical performance in terms of prediction error than  the recent state-of-the-art incremental solutions to variational sparse GPR.
Combinatorial Multi-Armed Bandit with General Reward Functions,In this paper, we study the stochastic combinatorial multi-armed bandit (CMAB) framework that allows a general nonlinear reward function, whose expected value may not depend only on the means of the input random variables but possibly on the entire distributions of these variables. Our framework enables a much larger class of reward functions such as the $\max()$ function and nonlinear utility functions. Existing techniques relying on accurate estimations of the means of random variables, such as the upper confidence bound (UCB) technique, do not work directly on these functions. We propose a new algorithm called stochastically dominant confidence bound (SDCB), which estimates the distributions of underlying random variables and their stochastically dominant confidence bounds. We prove that SDCB can achieve $O(\log T)$ distribution-dependent regret and $\tilde{O}(\sqrt{T})$ distribution-independent regret, where $T$ is the time horizon. We apply our results to the $K$-MAX problem and expected utility maximization problems. In particular, for $K$-MAX, we provide the first polynomial-time approximation scheme (PTAS) for its offline problem, and give the first $\tilde{O}(\sqrt T)$ bound on the $(1-\epsilon)$-approximation regret of its online problem, for any $\epsilon>0$.
Observational-Interventional Priors for Dose-Response Learning,Controlled interventions provide the most direct source of information for learning causal effects. In particular, a dose-response curve can be learned by varying the treatment level and observing the corresponding outcomes. However, interventions can be expensive and time-consuming. Observational data, where the treatment is not controlled by a known mechanism, is sometimes available. Under some strong assumptions, observational data allows for the estimation of dose-response curves. Estimating such curves nonparametrically is hard: sample sizes for controlled interventions may be small, while in the observational case a large number of measured confounders may need to be marginalized. In this paper, we introduce a hierarchical Gaussian process prior that constructs a distribution over the dose-response curve by learning from observational data, and reshapes the distribution with a nonparametric affine transform learned from controlled interventions. This function composition from different sources is shown to speed-up learning, which we demonstrate with a thorough sensitivity analysis and an application to modeling the effect of therapy on cognitive skills of premature infants.
On Graph Reconstruction via Empirical Risk Minimization: Fast Learning Rates and Scalability,The problem of predicting connections between a set of data points finds many applications, in systems biology and social network analysis among others. This paper focuses on the \textit{graph reconstruction} problem, where the prediction rule is obtained by minimizing the average error over all n(n-1)/2 possible pairs of the n nodes of a training graph. Our first contribution is to derive learning rates of order O(log n / n) for this problem, significantly improving upon the slow rates of order O(1/n) established in the seminal work of Biau & Bleakley (2006). Strikingly, these fast rates are universal, in contrast to similar results known for other statistical learning problems (e.g., classification, density level set estimation, ranking, clustering) which require strong assumptions on the distribution of the data. Motivated by applications to large graphs, our second contribution deals with the computational complexity of graph reconstruction. Specifically, we investigate to which extent the learning rates can be preserved when replacing the empirical reconstruction risk by a computationally cheaper Monte-Carlo version, obtained by sampling with replacement B << n pairs of nodes. Finally, we illustrate our theoretical results by numerical experiments on synthetic and real graphs.
DeepMath - Deep Sequence Models for Premise Selection,We study the effectiveness of neural sequence models for premise selection in automated theorem proving, a key bottleneck for progress in formalized mathematics. We propose a two stage approach for this task that yields good results for the premise selection task on the Mizar corpus while avoiding the hand-engineered features of existing state-of-the-art models. To our knowledge, this is the first time deep learning has been applied  theorem proving on a large scale.
Efficient Second Order Online Learning by Sketching,We propose Sketched Online Newton (SON), an online second order learning algorithm that enjoys substantially improved regret guarantees for ill-conditioned data. SON is an enhanced version of the Online Newton Step, which, via sketching techniques enjoys a running time linear in the dimension and sketch size.  We further develop sparse forms of the sketching methods (such as Oja's rule), making the computation linear in the sparsity of features. Together, the algorithm eliminates all computational obstacles in previous second order online learning approaches.
Gaussian Processes for Survival Analysis,We introduce a semi-parametric Bayesian model for survival analysis. The model is centred on a parametric baseline hazard, and uses a Gaussian process to model variations away from it nonparametrically, as well as  dependence on covariates. As opposed to many other methods in survival analysis, our framework does not impose unnecessary constraints in the hazard rate or in the survival function. Furthermore, our model handles left, right and interval censoring mechanisms common in survival analysis. We propose a MCMC algorithm to perform inference and an approximation scheme based on random Fourier features to make computations faster. We report experimental results on synthetic and real data, showing that our model performs better than competing models such as Cox proportional hazards, ANOVA-DDP and random survival forests.
The Power of Optimization from Samples,We consider the problem of optimization from samples of monotone submodular functions with bounded curvature. In numerous applications, the function optimized is not known a priori, but instead learned from data. What are the guarantees we have when optimizing functions from sampled data?  In this paper we show that for any monotone submodular function with curvature c there is a (1 - c)/(1 + c - c^2) approximation algorithm for maximization under cardinality constraints when polynomially-many samples are drawn from the uniform distribution over feasible sets. Moreover, we show that this algorithm is optimal. That is, for any c < 1, there exists a submodular function with curvature c for which no algorithm can achieve a better approximation. The curvature assumption is crucial as for general monotone submodular functions no algorithm can obtain a constant-factor approximation for maximization under a cardinality constraint when observing polynomially-many samples drawn from any distribution over feasible sets, even when the function is statistically learnable.
Global Optimality of Local Search for Low Rank Matrix Recovery,We show that there are no spurious local minima in the non-convex factorized parametrization of low-rank matrix recovery from incoherent linear measurements.  With noisy measurements we show all local minima are very close to a global optimum.  Together with a curvature bound at saddle points, this yields a polynomial time global convergence guarantee for stochastic gradient descent {\em  from random initialization}.
A state-space model of cross-region dynamic connectivity in MEG/EEG,Cross-region dynamic connectivity, which describes spatio-temporal dependence of neural activity among multiple brain regions of interest (ROIs), can provide important information for understanding cognition. For estimating such connectivity, magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) are well-suited tools because of their millisecond temporal resolution. However, localizing source activity in the brain requires solving an under-determined linear problem. In typical two-step approaches, researchers first solve the linear problem with general priors assuming independence across ROIs, and secondly quantify cross-region connectivity. In this work, we propose a one-step state-space model to improve estimation of dynamic connectivity. The model treats the mean activity in individual ROIs as the state variable, and describes non-stationary dynamic dependence across ROIs using time-varying auto-regression. Compared with a two-step method, which first obtains the commonly used minimum-norm estimates of source activity, and then fits the auto-regressive model, our state-space model yielded smaller estimation errors on simulated data where the model assumptions held. When applied on empirical MEG data from one participant in a scene-processing experiment, our state-space model also demonstrated intriguing preliminary results, indicating leading and lagged linear dependence between the early visual cortex and a higher-level scene-sensitive region, which could reflect feed-forward and feedback information flow within the visual cortex during scene processing.
Hypothesis Testing in Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Applications in Alzheimer's Disease,Consider samples from two different data sources $\{\mathbf{x_s^i}\} \sim P_{\rm source}$ and $\{\mathbf{x_t^i}\} \sim P_{\rm target}$. We only observe their transformed versions $h(\mathbf{x_s^i})$ and $g(\mathbf{x_t^i})$, for some known function class $h(\cdot)$ and $g(\cdot)$. Our goal is to perform a statistical test checking if $P_{\rm source}$ = $P_{\rm target}$ while removing the distortions induced by the transformations. This problem is closely related to concepts underlying numerous domain adaptation algorithms, and in our case, is motivated by the need to combine clinical and imaging based biomarkers from multiple sites and/or batches, where this problem is fairly common and an impediment in the conduct of analyses with much larger sample sizes. We develop a framework that addresses this problem using ideas from hypothesis testing on the transformed measurements, where in the distortions need to be estimated {\it in tandem} with the testing. We derive a simple algorithm and study its convergence and consistency properties in detail, and we also provide lower-bound strategies based on recent work in continuous optimization. On a dataset of individuals at risk for neurological disease, our results are competitive with alternative procedures that are twice as expensive and in some cases operationally infeasible to implement.
Bi-Objective Online Matching and Submodular  Allocations,Online allocation problems have been widely studied due to their numerous practical applications (particularly to Internet advertising), as well as considerable theoretical interest. The main challenge in such problems is making assignment decisions in the face of uncertainty about future input; effective algorithms need to predict which constraints are most likely to bind, and learn the balance between short-term gain and the value of long-term resource availability.  In many important applications, the algorithm designer is faced with multiple objectives to optimize. In particular, in online advertising it is fairly common to optimize multiple metrics, such as clicks, conversions, and impressions, as well as other metrics which may be largely uncorrelated such as share of voice, and buyer surplus. While there has been considerable work on multi-objective offline optimization (when the entire input is known in advance), very little is known about the online case, particularly in the case of adversarial input. In this paper, we give the first results for bi-objective online submodular optimization, providing almost matching upper and lower bounds for allocating items to agents with two submodular value functions. We also study practically relevant special cases of this problem related to Internet advertising, and obtain improved results. All our algorithms are nearly best possible, as well as being efficient and easy to implement in practice.
A Constant-Factor Bi-Criteria Approximation Guarantee for k-means++,This paper studies the $k$-means++ algorithm for clustering as well as the class of $D^\ell$ sampling algorithms to which $k$-means++ belongs.  It is shown that for any constant factor $\beta > 1$, selecting $\beta k$ cluster centers by $D^\ell$ sampling yields a constant-factor approximation to the optimal clustering with $k$ centers, in expectation and without conditions on the dataset.  This result extends the previously known $O(\log k)$ guarantee for the case $\beta = 1$ to the constant-factor bi-criteria regime.  It also improves upon an existing constant-factor bi-criteria result that holds only with constant probability.
Causal Bandits: Learning Good Interventions via Causal Inference,We study the problem of using causal models to improve the rate at which good interventions can be learned online in a stochastic environment. Our formalism combines multi-arm bandits and causal inference to model a novel type of bandit feedback that is not exploited by existing approaches. We propose a new algorithm that exploits the causal feedback and prove a bound on its simple regret that is strictly better (in all quantities) than algorithms that do not use the additional causal information.
Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Residual Transfer Networks,The recent success of deep neural networks relies on massive amounts of labeled data. For a target task where labeled data is unavailable, domain adaptation can transfer a learner from a different source domain. In this paper, we propose a new approach to domain adaptation in deep networks that can jointly learn adaptive classifiers and transferable features from labeled data in the source domain and unlabeled data in the target domain. We relax a shared-classifier assumption made by previous methods and assume that the source classifier and target classifier differ by a residual function. We enable classifier adaptation by plugging several layers into deep network to explicitly learn the residual function with reference to the target classifier. We fuse features of multiple layers with tensor product and embed them into reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces to match distributions for feature adaptation. The adaptation can be achieved in most feed-forward models by extending them with new residual layers and loss functions, which can be trained efficiently via back-propagation. Empirical evidence shows that the new approach outperforms state of the art methods on standard domain adaptation benchmarks.
Data driven estimation of Laplace-Beltrami operator,Approximations of Laplace-Beltrami operators on manifolds through graph Laplacians have become popular tools in data analysis and machine learning. These discretized operators usually depend on bandwidth parameters whose tuning remains a theoretical and practical problem. In this paper, we address this problem for the unormalized graph Laplacian by establishing an oracle inequality that opens the door to a well-founded data-driven procedure for the bandwidth selection. Our approach relies on recent results by Lacour and Massart (2015) on the so-called Lepski's method.
Fast Algorithms for Robust PCA via Gradient Descent,We consider the problem of Robust PCA in the fully and partially observed settings. Without corruptions, this is the well-known matrix completion problem. From a statistical standpoint this problem has been recently well-studied, and conditions on when recovery is possible (how many observations do we need, how many corruptions can we tolerate) via polynomial-time algorithms is by now understood. This paper presents and analyzes a non-convex optimization approach that greatly reduces the computational complexity of the above problems, compared to the best available algorithms. In particular, in the fully observed case, with $r$ denoting rank and $d$ dimension, we reduce the complexity from $O(r^2d^2\log(1/\epsilon))$ to $O(rd^2\log(1/\epsilon))$ -- a big savings when the rank is big. For the partially observed case, we show the complexity of our algorithm is no more than $O(r^4d\log(d)\log(1/\epsilon))$. Not only is this the best-known run-time for a provable algorithm under partial observation, but in the setting where $r$ is small compared to $d$, it also allows for near-linear-in-$d$ run-time that can be exploited in the fully-observed case as well, by simply running our algorithm on a subset of the observations.
NESTT: A Nonconvex Primal-Dual Splitting Method for Distributed and Stochastic Optimization,We study a stochastic and distributed algorithm for nonconvex  problems whose objective consists a sum $N$ nonconvex $L_i/N$-smooth functions, plus a  nonsmooth regularizer. The proposed NonconvEx primal-dual SpliTTing (NESTT) algorithm splits the problem into $N$ subproblems, and utilizes an augmented Lagrangian based primal-dual scheme to solve it in a distributed and stochastic manner. With a special non-uniform sampling, a version of NESTT achieves $\epsilon$-stationary solution  using $\mathcal{O}((\sum_{i=1}^N\sqrt{L_i/N})^2/\epsilon)$ gradient evaluations, which can be up to $\mathcal{O}(N)$ times better than the (proximal) gradient descent methods. It also achieves Q-linear convergence rate for nonconvex $\ell_1$ penalized quadratic problems with polyhedral constraints. Further, we reveal  a fundamental connection between {\it primal-dual} based methods and a few {\it primal only} methods such as IAG/SAG/SAGA.
Fundamental Limits of Budget-Fidelity Trade-off in Label Crowdsourcing,Digital crowdsourcing (CS) is a modern approach to perform certain large projects using small contributions of a large crowd. In CS, a taskmaster typically breaks down the project into small batches of tasks and assigns them to so-called workers with imperfect skill levels. The crowdsourcer then collects and analyzes the results for inference and serving the purpose of the project. In this work, the CS problem, as a human-in-the-loop computation problem, is modeled and analyzed in an information theoretic rate-distortion framework. The purpose is to identify the ultimate fidelity that one can achieve by any form of query from the crowd and any decoding (inference) algorithm with a given budget. The results are established by a joint source channel (de)coding scheme, which represent the query scheme and inference, over parallel noisy channels, which model workers with imperfect skill levels. We also present and analyze a query scheme dubbed k-ary incidence coding and study optimized query pricing in this setting.
Supervised Learning with Tensor Networks,Tensor networks are approximations of high-order tensors which are efficient to work with and have been very successful for physics and mathematics applications. We demonstrate how algorithms for optimizing tensor networks can be adapted to supervised learning tasks by using matrix product states (tensor trains) to parameterize non-linear kernel learning models. For the MNIST data set we obtain less than 1% test set classification error. We discuss an interpretation of the additional structure imparted by the tensor network to the learned model.
Understanding Probabilistic Sparse Gaussian Process Approximations,Good sparse approximations are essential for practical inference in Gaussian Processes as the computational cost of exact methods is prohibitive for large datasets. The Fully Independent Training Conditional (FITC) and the Variational Free Energy (VFE) approximations are two recent popular methods. Despite superficial similarities, these approximations have surprisingly different theoretical properties and behave differently in practice. We thoroughly investigate the two methods for regression both analytically and through illustrative examples, and draw conclusions to guide practical application.
A Locally Adaptive Normal Distribution,The multivariate normal density is a monotonic function of the distance to the mean, and its ellipsoidal shape is due to the underlying Euclidean metric. We suggest to replace this metric with a locally adaptive, smoothly changing (Riemannian) metric that favors regions of high local density. The resulting locally adaptive normal distribution (LAND) is a generalization of the normal distribution to the "manifold" setting, where data is assumed to lie near a potentially low-dimensional manifold embedded in R^D. The LAND is parametric, depending only on a mean and a covariance, and is the maximum entropy distribution under the given metric. The underlying metric is, however, non-parametric. We develop a maximum likelihood algorithm to infer the distribution parameters that relies on a combination of gradient descent and Monte Carlo integration. We further extend the LAND to mixture models, and provide the corresponding EM algorithm. We demonstrate the efficiency of the LAND to fit non-trivial probability distributions over both synthetic data, and EEG measurements of human sleep.
Anchor-Free Correlated Topic Modeling: Identifiability and Algorithm,In topic modeling, many algorithms that guarantee identifiability of the topics have been developed under the premise that there exist anchor words -- i.e., words that only appear (with positive probability) in one topic. Follow-up work has resorted to three or higher-order statistics of the data corpus to relax the anchor word assumption. Reliable estimates of higher-order statistics are hard to obtain, however, and the identification of topics under those models hinges on uncorrelatedness of the topics, which can be unrealistic. This paper revisits topic modeling based on second-order moments, and proposes an anchor-free topic mining framework. The proposed approach guarantees the identification of the topics under a much milder condition compared to the anchor-word assumption, thereby exhibiting much better robustness in practice. The associated algorithm only involves one eigen-decomposition and a few small linear programs. This makes it easy to implement and scale up to very large problem instances. Experiments using the TDT2 and Reuters-21578 corpus demonstrate that the proposed anchor-free approach exhibits very favorable performance (measured using coherence, similarity count, and clustering accuracy metrics) compared to the prior art.
Optimal Learning for Multi-pass Stochastic Gradient Methods,We analyze the learning  properties of the stochastic gradient method when multiple passes over the data and mini-batches are allowed. In particular, we consider the square loss and show that    for  a universal step-size choice, the number of passes acts as a regularization parameter, and optimal finite sample bounds  can be achieved by early-stopping. Moreover, we show that larger step-sizes are allowed when considering mini-batches. Our analysis is based on  a unifying approach, encompassing both batch and stochastic gradient methods as special cases.
Contextual semibandits via supervised learning oracles,We study an online decision making problem where on each round a learner chooses a list of items based on some side information, receives a scalar feedback value for each individual item, and a reward that is linearly related to this feedback. These problems, known as contextual semibandits, arise in crowdsourcing, recommendation, and many other domains. This paper reduces contextual semibandits to supervised learning, allowing us to leverage powerful supervised learning methods in this partial-feedback setting. Our first reduction applies when the mapping from feedback to reward is known and leads to a computationally efficient algorithm with near-optimal regret. We show that this algorithm outperforms state-of-the-art approaches on real-world learning-to-rank datasets, demonstrating the advantage of oracle-based algorithms. Our second reduction applies to the previously unstudied setting when the linear mapping from feedback to reward is unknown. Our regret guarantees are superior to prior techniques that ignore the feedback.
One-vs-Each Approximation to Softmax for Scalable Estimation of Probabilities,The softmax representation of probabilities for categorical variables plays a prominent role in modern machine learning with numerous applications in areas such as large scale classification, neural language modeling and recommendation systems. However, softmax estimation is very expensive for large scale inference because of the high cost associated with computing the normalizing constant. Here, we introduce an efficient approximation to softmax probabilities which takes the form of a rigorous lower bound on the exact probability. This bound is expressed as a product over pairwise probabilities and it leads to scalable estimation based on stochastic optimization. It allows us to perform doubly stochastic estimation by subsampling both training instances and class labels. We show that the new bound has interesting theoretical properties and we demonstrate its use in classification problems.
Satisfying Real-world Goals with Dataset Constraints,The goal of minimizing misclassification error on a training set is often just one of several real-world goals that might be defined on different datasets. For example, one may require a classifier to also make positive predictions at some specified rate for some subpopulation (fairness), or to achieve a specified empirical recall. Other real-world goals include reducing churn with respect to a previously deployed model, or stabilizing online training. In this paper we propose handling multiple goals on multiple datasets by training with dataset constraints, using the ramp penalty to accurately quantify costs, and present an efficient algorithm to approximately optimize the resulting non-convex constrained optimization problem. Experiments on both benchmark and real-world industry datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Blind Regression: Nonparametric Regression for Latent Variable Models via Collaborative Filtering,We introduce the framework of blind regression motivated by matrix completion for recommendation systems: given $m$ users, $n$ movies, and a subset of user-movie ratings, the goal is to predict the unobserved user-movie ratings given the data, i.e., to complete the partially observed matrix. Following the framework of non-parametric statistics, we posit that user $u$ and movie $i$ have features $x1(u)$ and $x2(i)$ respectively, and their corresponding rating $y(u,i)$ is a noisy measurement of $f(x1(u), x2(i))$ for some unknown function $f$. In contrast with classical regression, the features $x = (x1(u), x2(i))$ are not observed, making it challenging to apply standard regression methods to  predict the unobserved ratings.

Inspired by the classical Taylor's expansion for differentiable functions, we provide a prediction algorithm that is consistent for all Lipschitz functions. In fact, the analysis through our framework naturally leads to a variant of collaborative filtering, shedding insight into the widespread success of collaborative filtering in practice. Assuming each entry is sampled independently with probability at least $\max(m^{-1+\delta},n^{-1/2+\delta})$ with $\delta > 0$, we prove that the expected fraction of our estimates with error greater than $\epsilon$ is less than $\gamma^2 / \epsilon^2$ plus a polynomially decaying term, where $\gamma^2$ is the variance of the additive entry-wise noise term. Experiments with the MovieLens and Netflix datasets suggest that our algorithm provides principled improvements over basic collaborative filtering and is competitive with matrix factorization methods.
Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning,Consider learning a policy from example expert behavior, without interaction with the expert or access to a reinforcement signal. One approach is to recover the expert's cost function with inverse reinforcement learning, then extract a policy from that cost function with reinforcement learning. This approach is indirect and can be slow. We propose a new general framework for directly extracting a policy from data as if it were obtained by reinforcement learning following inverse reinforcement learning. We show that a certain instantiation of our framework draws an analogy between imitation learning and generative adversarial networks, from which we derive a model-free imitation learning algorithm that obtains significant performance gains over existing model-free  methods in imitating complex behaviors in large, high-dimensional environments.
Fast Active Set Methods for Online Spike Inference from Calcium Imaging,Fluorescent calcium indicators are a popular means for observing the spiking activity of large neuronal populations. Unfortunately, extracting the spike train of each neuron from raw fluorescence calcium imaging data is a nontrivial problem. We present a fast online active set method to solve this sparse nonnegative deconvolution problem. Importantly, the algorithm progresses through each time series sequentially from beginning to end, thus enabling real-time online spike inference during the imaging session. Our algorithm is a generalization of the pool adjacent violators algorithm (PAVA) for isotonic regression and inherits its linear-time computational complexity. We gain remarkable increases in processing speed:  more than one order of magnitude compared to currently employed state of the art convex solvers relying on interior point methods. Our method can exploit warm starts; therefore optimizing model hyperparameters only requires a handful of passes through the data. The algorithm enables real-time simultaneous deconvolution of $O(10^5)$ traces of whole-brain zebrafish imaging data on a laptop.
Path-Normalized Optimization of Recurrent Neural Networks with ReLU Activations,We investigate the parameter-space geometry of recurrent neural networks (RNNs), and develop an adaptation of path-SGD optimization method, attuned to this geometry, that can learn plain RNNs with ReLU activations. On several datasets that require capturing long-term dependency structure, we show that path-SGD can significantly improve trainability of ReLU RNNs compared to RNNs trained with SGD, even with various recently suggested initialization schemes.
Improved Regret Bounds for Oracle-Based Adversarial Contextual Bandits,We propose a new oracle-based algorithm, BISTRO+, for the adversarial contextual bandit problem, where either contexts are drawn i.i.d. or the sequence of contexts is known a priori, but where the losses are picked adversarially. Our algorithm is computationally efficient, assuming access to an offline optimization oracle, and enjoys a regret of order $O((KT)^{\frac{2}{3}}(\log N)^{\frac{1}{3}})$, where $K$ is the number of actions, $T$ is the number of iterations, and $N$ is the number of baseline policies. Our result is the first to break the $O(T^{\frac{3}{4}})$ barrier achieved by recent algorithms, which was left as a major open problem. Our analysis employs the recent relaxation framework of (Rakhlin and Sridharan, ICML'16).
Diffusion-Convolutional Neural Networks,We present diffusion-convolutional neural networks (DCNNs), a new model for graph-structured data.  Through the introduction of a diffusion-convolution operation, we show how diffusion-based representations can be learned from graph-structured data and used as an effective basis for node classification. DCNNs have several attractive qualities, including a latent representation for graphical data that is invariant under isomorphism, as well as polynomial-time prediction and learning that can be represented as tensor operations and efficiently implemented on a GPU.  Through several experiments with real structured datasets, we demonstrate that DCNNs are able to  outperform probabilistic relational models and kernel-on-graph methods at relational node classification tasks.
Faster Projection-free Convex Optimization over the Spectrahedron,Minimizing a convex function over the spectrahedron, i.e., the set of all $d\times d$ positive semidefinite matrices with unit trace, is an important optimization task with many applications in optimization, machine learning, and signal processing. It is also notoriously difficult to solve in large-scale since standard techniques require to compute expensive matrix decompositions. An alternative, is the conditional gradient method (aka Frank-Wolfe algorithm) that regained much interest in recent years, mostly due to its application to this specific setting. The key benefit of the CG method is that it avoids expensive matrix decompositions all together, and simply requires a single eigenvector computation per iteration, which is much more efficient. On the downside, the CG method, in general, converges with an inferior rate. The error for minimizing a $\beta$-smooth function after $t$ iterations scales like $\beta/t$. This rate does not improve even if the function is also strongly convex. In this work we present a modification of the CG method tailored for the spectrahedron. The per-iteration complexity of the method is essentially identical to that of the standard CG method: only a single eigenvecor computation is required. For minimizing an $\alpha$-strongly convex and $\beta$-smooth function, the \textit{expected} error of the method after $t$ iterations is: $O\left({\min\{\frac{\beta{}}{t} ,\left({\frac{\beta\sqrt{\rank(\X^*)}}{\alpha^{1/4}t}}\right)^{4/3}, \left({\frac{\beta}{\sqrt{\alpha}\lambda_{\min}(\X^*)t}}\right)^{2}\}}\right)$. Beyond the significant improvement in convergence rate,  it also follows that when the optimum is low-rank, our method provides better accuracy-rank tradeoff than the standard CG method. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first result that attains provably faster convergence rates for a CG variant for optimization over the spectrahedron. We also present encouraging preliminary empirical results.
Structured Matrix Recovery via the Generalized Dantzig Selector,In recent years, structured matrix recovery problems have gained considerable attention for its real world applications, such as recommender systems and computer vision. Much of the existing work has focused on matrices with low-rank structure, and limited progress has been made on matrices with other types of structure. In this paper we present non-asymptotic analysis for estimation of generally structured matrices via the generalized Dantzig selector based on sub-Gaussian measurements. We show that the estimation error can always be succinctly expressed in terms of a few geometric measures such as Gaussian widths of suitable sets associated with the structure of the underlying true matrix. Further, we derive general bounds on these geometric measures for structures characterized by unitarily invariant norms, a large family covering most matrix norms of practical interest. Examples are provided to illustrate the utility of our theoretical development.
Convex Two-Layer Modeling with Latent Structure,Unsupervised learning of structured predictors has been a long standing pursuit in machine learning.  Recently a conditional random field auto-encoder has been proposed in a two-layer setting, allowing latent structured representation to be automatically inferred.  Aside from being nonconvex, it also requires the demanding inference of normalization.  In this paper, we develop a convex relaxation of two-layer conditional model which captures latent structure and estimates model parameters, jointly and optimally.  We further expand its applicability by resorting to a weaker form of inference---maximum a-posteriori.  The flexibility of the model is demonstrated on two structures based on total unimodularity---graph matching and linear chain.  Experimental results confirm the promise of the method.
Finite-Sample Analysis of Fixed-k Nearest Neighbor Density Functional Estimators,We provide finite-sample analysis of a general framework for using k-nearest neighbor statistics to estimate functionals of a nonparametric continuous probability density, including entropies and divergences. Rather than plugging a consistent density estimate (which requires k   as the sample size n  ) into the functional of interest, the estimators we consider fix k and perform a bias correction. This can be more efficient computationally, and, as we show, statistically, leading to faster convergence rates. Our framework unifies several previous estimators, for most of which ours are the first finite sample guarantees.
Deep Learning Games,We investigate a reduction of supervised learning to game playing that reveals new connections and learning methods.  For convex one-layer problems, we demonstrate an equivalence between global minimizers of the training problem and Nash equilibria in a simple game.  We then show how the game can be extended to general acyclic neural networks with differentiable convex gates, establishing a bijection between the Nash equilibria and critical (or KKT) points of the deep learning problem.  Based on these connections we investigate alternative learning methods, and find that regret matching can achieve competitive training performance while producing sparser models than current deep learning approaches.
Congruent and Opposite Neurons: Sisters for Multisensory Integration and Segregation,Experiments reveal that in the dorsal medial superior temporal (MSTd) and the ventral intraparietal (VIP) areas, where visual and vestibular cues are integrated to infer heading direction, there are two types of neurons with roughly the same number. One is congruent cells, whose preferred heading directions are similar in response to visual and vestibular cues; and the other is opposite cells, whose preferred heading directions are nearly opposite (with an offset of 180 degree) in response to visual vs. vestibular cues. Congruent neurons are known to be responsible for cue integration, but the computational role of opposite neurons remains largely unknown. Here, we propose that opposite neurons may serve to encode the disparity information between cues necessary for multisensory segregation. We build a computational model composed of two reciprocally coupled modules, MSTd and VIP, and each module consists of groups of congruent and opposite neurons. In the model, congruent neurons in two modules are reciprocally connected with each other in the congruent manner, whereas opposite neurons are reciprocally connected in the opposite manner. Mimicking the experimental protocol, our model reproduces the characteristics of congruent and opposite neurons, and demonstrates that in each module, the sisters of congruent and opposite neurons can jointly achieve optimal multisensory information integration and segregation. This study sheds light on our understanding of how the brain implements optimal multisensory integration and segregation concurrently in a distributed manner.
Statistical Inference for Cluster Trees,A cluster tree provides an intuitive summary of a density function that reveals essential structure about the high-density clusters. The true cluster tree is estimated from a finite sample from an unknown true density. This paper addresses the basic question of quantifying our  uncertainty by assessing the statistical significance of different features of an empirical cluster tree. We first study a variety of metrics that can be used to compare different trees, analyzing their properties and assessing their suitability for our inference task. We then propose methods to construct and summarize confidence sets for the unknown true cluster tree. We introduce a partial ordering on cluster trees which we use to prune some of the statistically insignificant features of the empirical tree, yielding interpretable and parsimonious cluster trees. Finally, we provide a variety of simulations to illustrate our proposed methods and furthermore demonstrate their utility in the analysis of a Graft-versus-Host Disease (GvHD) data set.
Minimizing Regret on Reflexive Banach Spaces and Nash Equilibria in Continuous Zero-Sum Games,We study a general adversarial online learning problem, in which we are given a decision set X' in a reflexive Banach space X and a sequence of reward vectors in the dual space of X. At each iteration, we choose an action from X', based on the observed sequence of previous rewards. Our goal is to minimize regret, defined as the gap between the realized reward and the reward of the best fixed action in hindsight. Using results from infinite dimensional convex analysis, we generalize the method of Dual Averaging (or Follow the Regularized Leader) to our setting and obtain upper bounds on the worst-case regret that generalize many previous results. Under the assumption of uniformly continuous rewards, we obtain explicit regret bounds in a setting where the decision set is the set of probability distributions on a compact metric space S. Importantly, we make no convexity assumptions on either the set S or the reward functions. We also prove a general lower bound on the worst-case regret for any online algorithm. We then apply these results to the problem of learning in repeated two-player zero-sum games on compact metric spaces. In doing so, we first prove that if both players play a Hannan-consistent strategy, then with probability 1 the empirical distributions of play weakly converge to the set of Nash equilibria of the game. We then show that, under mild assumptions, Dual Averaging on the (infinite-dimensional) space of probability distributions indeed achieves Hannan-consistency.
An Online Sequence-to-Sequence Model Using Partial Conditioning,Sequence-to-sequence models have achieved impressive results on various tasks. However, they are unsuitable for tasks that require incremental predictions to be made as more data arrives or tasks that have long input sequences and output sequences. This is because they generate an output sequence conditioned on an entire input sequence. In this paper, we present a Neural Transducer that can make incremental predictions as more input arrives, without redoing the entire computation. Unlike sequence-to-sequence models, the Neural Transducer computes the next-step distribution conditioned on the partially observed input sequence and the partially generated sequence. At each time step, the transducer can decide to emit zero to many output symbols. The data can be processed using an encoder and presented as input to the transducer. The discrete decision to emit a symbol at every time step makes it difficult to learn with conventional backpropagation. It is however possible to train the transducer by using a dynamic programming algorithm to generate target discrete decisions. Our experiments show that the Neural Transducer works well in settings where it is required to produce output predictions as data come in. We also find that the Neural Transducer performs well for long sequences even when attention mechanisms are not used.
Feature selection in functional data classification with recursive maxima hunting,Dimensionality reduction is one of the key issues in the design of effective machine learning methods for automatic induction.  In this work, we introduce recursive maxima hunting (RMH) for variable selection in classification problems with functional data. In this context, variable selection techniques are especially attractive because they reduce the dimensionality, facilitate the interpretation and can improve the accuracy of the predictive models. The method, which is a recursive extension of maxima hunting (MH), performs variable selection by identifying the maxima of a relevance function, which measures the strength of the correlation of the predictor functional variable with the class label. At each stage, the information associated with the selected variable is removed by subtracting the conditional expectation of the process. The results of an extensive empirical evaluation are used to illustrate that, in the problems investigated, RMH has comparable or higher predictive accuracy than standard simensionality reduction techniques, such as PCA and PLS, and state-of-the-art feature selection methods for functional data, such as maxima hunting.
Homotopy Smoothing for Non-Smooth Problems with Lower Complexity than $O(1/\epsilon)$,In this paper, we develop a novel {\bf ho}moto{\bf p}y  {\bf s}moothing (HOPS) algorithm for solving a family of non-smooth problems that is composed of a non-smooth term with an explicit max-structure and  a smooth term or  a simple non-smooth term whose proximal mapping is easy to compute. The best known iteration complexity for solving such non-smooth optimization problems is $O(1/\epsilon)$ without any assumption on the strong convexity. In this work, we will show that the proposed  HOPS achieved a lower iteration complexity of $\tilde O(1/\epsilon^{1-\theta})$ with $\theta\in(0,1]$ capturing the local sharpness of the objective function around the optimal solutions. To the best of our knowledge, this is the lowest iteration complexity achieved so far for the considered non-smooth optimization problems without strong convexity assumption.  The HOPS algorithm employs Nesterov's smoothing technique and Nesterov's accelerated gradient method and runs in stages, which gradually decreases the smoothing parameter in a stage-wise manner until it yields a sufficiently good approximation of the original function. We show that HOPS enjoys a linear convergence for many well-known non-smooth problems (e.g., empirical risk minimization with a piece-wise linear loss function and $\ell_1$ norm regularizer, finding a point in a polyhedron, cone programming, etc). Experimental results verify the effectiveness of HOPS in comparison with Nesterov's smoothing algorithm and the primal-dual style of first-order methods.
Nested Mini-Batch K-Means,A new algorithm is proposed which accelerates the mini-batch k-means algorithm of Sculley (2010) by using the distance bounding approach of Elkan (2003). We argue that, when incorporating distance bounds into a mini-batch algorithm, already used data should preferentially be reused. To this end we propose using nested mini-batches, whereby data in a mini-batch at iteration t is automatically reused at iteration t+1.   Using nested mini-batches presents two difficulties. The first is that unbalanced use of data can bias estimates, which we resolve by ensuring that each data sample contributes exactly once to centroids. The second is in choosing mini-batch sizes, which we address by balancing premature fine-tuning of centroids with redundancy induced slow-down. Experiments show that the resulting nmbatch algorithm is very effective, often arriving within 1\% of the empirical minimum 100 times earlier than the standard mini-batch algorithm.
Density Estimation via Discrepancy Based Adaptive Sequential Partition,Given $iid$ observations from an unknown continuous distribution defined on some domain $\Omega$, we propose a nonparametric method to learn a piecewise constant function to approximate the underlying probability density function. Our density estimate is a piecewise constant function defined on a binary partition of $\Omega$.  The key ingredient of the algorithm is to use discrepancy, a concept originates from Quasi Monte Carlo analysis, to control the partition process. The resulting algorithm is simple, efficient, and has  provable convergence rate. We demonstrate empirically its efficiency as a density estimation method. We also show how it can be utilized to find good initializations for k-means.
Budgeted stream-based active learning via adaptive submodular maximization,Active learning enables us to reduce the annotation cost by adaptively selecting unlabeled instances to be labeled. For pool-based active learning, several effective methods with theoretical guarantees have been developed through maximizing some utility function satisfying adaptive submodularity. In contrast, there have been few methods for stream-based active learning based on adaptive submodularity. In this paper, we propose a new class of utility functions, policy-adaptive submodular functions, and prove this class includes many existing adaptive submodular functions appearing in real world problems. We provide a general framework based on policy-adaptive submodularity that makes it possible to convert existing pool-based methods to stream-based methods and give theoretical guarantees on their performance. In addition we empirically demonstrate their effectiveness comparing with existing heuristics on common benchmark datasets.
Lifelong Learning with Weighted Majority Votes,Better understanding of the potential benefits of information transfer and representation learning is an important step towards the goal of building intelligent systems that are able to persist in the world and learn over time. In this work, we consider a setting where the learner encounters a stream of tasks but is able to retain only limited information from each encountered task, such as a learned predictor. In contrast to most previous works analyzing this scenario, we do not make any distributional assumptions on the task generating process. Instead, we formulate a complexity measure that captures the diversity of the observed tasks. We provide a lifelong learning algorithm with error guarantees for every observed task (rather than on average). We show sample complexity reductions in comparison to solving every task in isolation in terms of our task complexity measure. Further, our algorithmic framework can naturally be viewed as learning a representation from encountered tasks with a neural network.
How Deep is the Feature Analysis underlying Rapid Visual Categorization?,Rapid categorization paradigms have a long history in experimental psychology: Characterized by short presentation times and speeded behavioral responses, these tasks highlight the efficiency with which our visual system processes natural object categories. Previous studies have shown that feed-forward hierarchical models of the visual cortex provide a good fit to human visual decisions. At the same time, recent work in computer vision has demonstrated significant gains in object recognition accuracy with increasingly deep hierarchical architectures. But it is unclear how well these models account for human visual decisions and what they may reveal about the underlying brain processes.      We have conducted a large-scale psychophysics study to assess the correlation between computational models and human behavioral responses on a rapid animal vs. non-animal categorization task. We considered visual representations of varying complexity by analyzing the output of different stages of processing in three state-of-the-art deep networks. We found that recognition accuracy increases with higher stages of visual processing (higher level stages indeed outperforming human participants on the same task) but that human decisions agree best with predictions from intermediate stages.       Overall, these results suggest that human participants may rely on visual features of intermediate complexity and that the complexity of visual representations afforded by modern deep network models may exceed the complexity of those used by human participants during rapid categorization.
Incremental Boosting Convolutional Neural Network for Facial Action Unit Recognition,Recognizing facial action units (AUs) from spontaneous facial expressions is still a challenging problem. Most recently, CNNs have shown promise on facial AU recognition. However, the learned CNNs are often overfitted and do not generalize well to unseen subjects due to limited AU-coded training images. We proposed a novel Incremental Boosting CNN (IB-CNN) to integrate boosting into the CNN via an incremental boosting layer that selects discriminative neurons from the lower layer and is incrementally updated on successive mini-batches. In addition, a novel loss function that accounts for errors from both the incremental boosted classifier and individual weak classifiers was proposed to fine-tune the IB-CNN. Experimental results on four benchmark AU databases have demonstrated that the IB-CNN yields significant improvement over the traditional CNN and the boosting CNN without incremental learning, as well as outperforming the state-of-the-art CNN-based methods in AU recognition. The improvement is more impressive for the AUs that have the lowest frequencies in the databases.
Multivariate tests of association based on univariate tests,For testing two vector random variables for independence, we  propose testing whether the distance of one vector from an arbitrary  center point is independent from the distance of the other vector from another arbitrary center point by a univariate test. We prove that under minimal assumptions, it is enough to have a consistent univariate independence test on the distances, to guarantee that the power to detect dependence between the random vectors increases to one with sample size.  If the univariate test is  distribution-free, the multivariate test will also be distribution-free. If we consider multiple center points and aggregate the  center-specific univariate tests, the power may be further improved, and the resulting multivariate test may be distribution-free for specific aggregation methods (if the univariate test is distribution-free).  We show that certain multivariate tests recently proposed in the literature can be viewed as instances of this general approach. Moreover, we show in experiments that novel tests constructed using our approach can have better power and computational time than competing approaches.
SURGE: Surface Regularized Geometry Estimation from a Single Image,This paper introduces an approach to regularize 2.5D surface normal and depth predictions at each pixel given a single input image. The approach infers and reasons about the underlying 3D planar surfaces depicted in the image to snap predicted normals and depths to inferred planar surfaces, all while maintaining fine detail within objects. Our approach comprises two components: (i) a fourstream convolutional neural network (CNN) where depths, surface normals, and likelihoods of planar region and planar boundary are predicted at each pixel, followed by (ii) a dense conditional random field (DCRF) that integrates the four predictions such that the normals and depths are compatible with each other and regularized by the planar region and planar boundary information. The DCRF is formulated such that gradients can be passed to the surface normal and depth CNNs via backpropagation. In addition, we propose new planar wise metrics to evaluate geometry consistency within planar surfaces, which are more tightly related to dependent 3D editing applications. We show that our regularization yields a 30% relative improvement in planar consistency on the NYU v2 dataset.
Memory-Efficient Backpropagation Through Time,We propose a novel approach to reduce memory consumption of the backpropagation through time (BPTT) algorithm when training recurrent neural networks (RNNs). Our approach uses dynamic programming to balance a trade-off between caching of intermediate results and recomputation. The algorithm is capable of tightly fitting within almost any user-set memory budget while finding an optimal execution policy minimizing the computational cost. Computational devices have limited memory capacity and maximizing a computational performance given a fixed memory budget is a practical use-case. We provide asymptotic computational upper bounds for various regimes. The algorithm is particularly effective for long sequences. For sequences of length 1000, our algorithm saves 95\% of memory usage while using only one third more time per iteration than the standard BPTT.
Scan Order in Gibbs Sampling: Models in Which it Matters and Bounds on How Much,Gibbs sampling is a Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling technique that iteratively samples variables from their conditional distributions. There are two common scan orders for the variables: random scan and systematic scan. Due to the benefits of locality in hardware, systematic scan is commonly used, even though most statistical guarantees are only for random scan. While it has been conjectured that the mixing times of random scan and systematic scan do not differ by more than a logarithmic factor, we show by counterexample that this is not the case, and we prove that that the mixing times do not differ by more than a polynomial factor under mild conditions. To prove these relative bounds, we introduce a method of augmenting the state space to study systematic scan using conductance.
LightRNN: Memory and Computation-Efficient Recurrent Neural Networks,Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) have achieved state-of-the-art performances in many natural language processing tasks, such as language modeling and machine translation. However, when the vocabulary is large, the RNN model will become very big (e.g., possibly beyond the memory capacity of a GPU device) and its training will become very inefficient. In this work, we propose a novel technique to tackle this challenge. The key idea is to use 2-Component (2C) shared embedding for word representations. We allocate every word in the vocabulary into a table, each row of which is associated with a vector, and each column associated with another vector. Depending on its position in the table, a word is jointly represented by two components: a row vector and a column vector. Since the words in the same row share the row vector and the words in the same column share the column vector, we only need $2 \sqrt{|V|}$ vectors to represent a vocabulary of $|V|$ unique words, which are far less than the $|V|$ vectors required by existing approaches. Based on the 2-Component shared embedding, we design a new RNN algorithm and evaluate it using the language modeling task on several benchmark datasets. The results show that our algorithm significantly reduces the model size and speeds up the training process, without sacrifice of accuracy (it achieves similar, if not better, perplexity as compared to state-of-the-art language models). Remarkably, on the One-Billion-Word benchmark Dataset, our algorithm achieves comparable perplexity to previous language models, whilst reducing the model size by a factor of 40-100, and speeding up the training process by a factor of 2. We name our proposed algorithm \emph{LightRNN} to reflect its very small model size and very high training speed.
Direct Feedback Alignment Provides Learning in Deep Neural Networks,Artificial neural networks are most commonly trained with the back-propagation algorithm, where the gradient for learning is provided by back-propagating the error, layer by layer, from the output layer to the hidden layers. A recently discovered method called feedback-alignment shows that the weights used for propagating the error backward don't have to be symmetric with the weights used for propagation the activation forward. In fact, random feedback weights work evenly well, because the network learns how to make the feedback useful. In this work, the feedback alignment principle is used for training hidden layers more independently from the rest of the network, and from a zero initial condition. The error is propagated through fixed random feedback connections directly from the output layer to each hidden layer. This simple method is able to achieve zero training error even in convolutional networks and very deep networks, completely without error back-propagation. The method is a step towards biologically plausible machine learning because the error signal is almost local, and no symmetric or reciprocal weights are required. Experiments show that the test performance on MNIST and CIFAR is almost as good as those obtained with back-propagation for fully connected networks. If combined with dropout, the method achieves 1.45% error on the permutation invariant MNIST task.
Variational Bayes on Monte Carlo Steroids,Variational approaches are often used to approximate intractable posteriors or normalization constants in hierarchical latent variable models. While often effective in practice, it is known that the approximation error can be arbitrarily large.  We propose a new class of bounds on the marginal log-likelihood of directed latent variable models. Our approach relies on random projections to simplify the posterior. In contrast to standard variational methods, our bounds are guaranteed to be tight with high probability. We provide a new approach for learning latent variable models based on optimizing our new bounds on the log-likelihood. We demonstrate empirical improvements on benchmark datasets in vision and language for sigmoid belief networks, where a neural network is used to approximate the posterior.
Agnostic Estimation for Misspecified Phase Retrieval Models,The goal of noisy high-dimensional phase retrieval is to estimate an $s$-sparse parameter $\boldsymbol{\beta}^*\in \mathbb{R}^d$ from $n$ realizations of the model $Y = (\boldsymbol{X}^{\top} \boldsymbol{\beta}^*)^2 + \varepsilon$. Based on this model, we propose a significant semi-parametric generalization called misspecified phase retrieval (MPR), in which $Y = f(\boldsymbol{X}^{\top}\boldsymbol{\beta}^*, \varepsilon)$ with unknown $f$ and $\operatorname{Cov}(Y, (\boldsymbol{X}^{\top}\boldsymbol{\beta}^*)^2) > 0$. For example, MPR encompasses $Y = h(|\boldsymbol{X}^{\top} \boldsymbol{\beta}^*|) + \varepsilon$ with increasing $h$ as a special case. Despite the generality of the MPR model, it eludes the reach of most existing semi-parametric estimators. In this paper, we propose an estimation procedure, which consists of solving a cascade of two convex programs and provably recovers the direction of $\boldsymbol{\beta}^*$. Our theory is backed up by thorough numerical results.
Following the Leader and Fast Rates in Linear Prediction: Curved Constraint Sets and Other Regularities,The follow the leader (FTL) algorithm, perhaps the simplest of all online learning algorithms, is known to perform well when the loss functions it is used on are positively curved. In this paper we ask whether there are other "lucky" settings when FTL achieves sublinear, "small" regret. In particular, we study the fundamental problem of linear prediction over a non-empty convex, compact domain. Amongst other results, we prove that the curvature of  the boundary of the domain can act as if the losses were curved: In this case, we prove that as long as the mean of the loss vectors have positive lengths bounded away from zero, FTL enjoys a logarithmic growth rate of regret, while, e.g., for polyhedral domains and stochastic data it enjoys finite expected regret. Building on a previously known meta-algorithm, we also get an algorithm that simultaneously enjoys the worst-case guarantees and the bound available for FTL.
Combining Fully Convolutional and Recurrent Neural Networks for 3D Biomedical Image Segmentation,Segmentation of 3D images is a fundamental problem in biomedical image analysis. Deep learning (DL) approaches have achieved the state-of-the-art segmentation performance. To exploit the 3D contexts using neural networks, known DL segmentation methods, including 3D convolution, 2D convolution on the planes orthogonal to 2D slices, and LSTM in multiple directions, all suffer incompatibility with the highly anisotropic dimensions in common 3D biomedical images. In this paper, we propose a new DL framework for 3D image segmentation, based on a combination of a fully convolutional network (FCN) and a recurrent neural network (RNN), which are responsible for exploiting the intra-slice and inter-slice contexts, respectively. To our best knowledge, this is the first DL framework for 3D image segmentation that explicitly leverages 3D image anisotropism. Evaluating using a dataset from the ISBI Neuronal Structure Segmentation Challenge and in-house image stacks for 3D fungus segmentation, our approach achieves promising results, comparing to the known DL-based 3D segmentation approaches.
The Product Cut,We introduce a theoretical and algorithmic framework for multi-way graph partitioning that relies on a multiplicative cut-based objective. We refer to this objective as the Product Cut. We provide a detailed investigation of the mathematical properties of this objective and an effective algorithm for its optimization. The proposed model has strong mathematical underpinnings, and the corresponding algorithm achieves state-of-the-art performance on benchmark data sets.
Stochastic Gradient Methods for Distributionally Robust Optimization with f-divergences,We develop efficient solution methods for a robust empirical risk minimization problem designed to give calibrated confidence intervals on performance and provide optimal tradeoffs between bias and variance. Our methods apply to distributionally robust optimization problems proposed by Ben-Tal et al., which put more weight on observations inducing high loss via a worst-case approach over a non-parametric uncertainty set on the underlying data distribution. Our algorithm solves the resulting minimax problems with nearly the same computational cost of stochastic gradient descent through the use of several carefully designed data structures. For a sample of size n, the per-iteration cost of our method scales as O(log n), which allows us to give optimality certificates that distributionally robust optimization provides at little extra cost compared to empirical risk minimization and stochastic gradient methods.
Man is to Computer Programmer as Woman is to Homemaker? Debiasing Word Embeddings,The blind application of machine learning runs the risk of amplifying biases present in data. Such a danger is facing us with word embedding, a popular framework to represent text data as vectors which has been used in many machine learning and natural language processing tasks. We show that even word embeddings trained on Google News articles exhibit female/male gender stereotypes to a disturbing extent. This raises concerns because their widespread use, as we describe, often tends to amplify these biases. Geometrically, gender bias is first shown to be captured by a direction in the word embedding. Second, gender neutral words are shown to be linearly separable from gender definition words in the word embedding. Using these properties, we provide a methodology for modifying an embedding to remove gender stereotypes, such as the association between the words receptionist and female, while maintaining desired associations such as between the words queen and female.  Using crowd-worker evaluation as well as standard benchmarks, we empirically demonstrate that our algorithms significantly reduce gender bias in embeddings while preserving the its useful properties such as the ability to cluster related concepts and to solve analogy tasks. The resulting embeddings can be used in applications without amplifying gender bias.
Optimal spectral transportation with application to music transcription,Many spectral unmixing methods rely on the non-negative decomposition of spectral data onto a dictionary of spectral templates. In particular, state-of-the-art music transcription systems decompose the spectrogram of the input signal onto a dictionary of representative note spectra. The typical measures of fit used to quantify the adequacy of the decomposition compare the data and template entries frequency-wise. As such, small displacements of energy from a frequency bin to another as well as variations of timber can disproportionally harm the fit. We address these issues by means of optimal transportation and propose a new measure of fit that treats the frequency distributions of energy holistically as opposed to frequency-wise. Building on the harmonic nature of sound, the new measure is invariant to shifts of energy to harmonically-related frequencies, as well as to small and local displacements of energy. Equipped with this new measure of fit, the dictionary of note templates can be considerably simplified to a set of Dirac vectors located at the target fundamental frequencies (musical pitch values). This in turns gives ground to a very fast and simple decomposition algorithm that achieves state-of-the-art performance on real musical data.
Combining Adversarial Guarantees and Stochastic Fast Rates in Online Learning,We consider online learning algorithms that guarantee worst-case regret rates in adversarial environments (so they can be deployed safely and will perform robustly), yet adapt optimally to favorable stochastic environments (so they will perform well in a variety of settings of practical importance). We quantify the friendliness of stochastic environments by means of the well-known Bernstein (a.k.a. generalized Tsybakov margin) condition. For two recent algorithms (Squint for the Hedge setting and MetaGrad for online convex optimization) we show that the particular form of their data-dependent individual-sequence regret guarantees implies that they adapt automatically to the Bernstein parameters of the stochastic environment. We prove that these algorithms attain fast rates in their respective settings both in expectation and with high probability.
Towards Conceptual Compression,We introduce convolutional DRAW, a homogeneous deep generative model achieving state-of-the-art performance in latent variable image modeling. The algorithm naturally stratifies information into higher and lower level details, creating abstract features and as such addressing one of the fundamentally desired properties of representation learning. Furthermore, the hierarchical ordering of its latents creates the opportunity to selectively store global information about an image, yielding a high quality 'conceptual compression' framework.
Can Peripheral Representations Improve Clutter Metrics on Complex Scenes?,Previous studies have proposed image-based clutter measures that correlate with human search times and/or eye movements. However, most models do not take into account the fact that the effects of clutter interact with the foveated nature of the human visual system: visual clutter further from the fovea has an increasing detrimental influence on perception. Here, we introduce a new foveated clutter model to predict the detrimental effects in target search utilizing a forced fixation search task. We use Feature Congestion (Rosenholtz et al.) as our non foveated clutter model, and we stack a peripheral architecture on top of Feature Congestion for our foveated model. We introduce the Peripheral Integration Feature Congestion (PIFC) coefficient, as a fundamental ingredient of our model that modulates clutter as a non-linear gain contingent on eccentricity. We finally show that Foveated Feature Congestion (FFC) clutter scores (r(44) = 0.82  0.04, p < 0.0001) correlate better with target detection (hit rate) than regular Feature Congestion (r(44) = 0.19  0.13, p = 0.0774) in forced fixation search; and we extend foveation to other clutter models showing stronger correlations in all cases. Thus, our model allows us to enrich clutter perception research by computing fixation specific clutter maps. Code for building peripheral representations is  available.
GAP Safe Screening Rules for Sparse-Group Lasso,For statistical learning in high dimension, sparse regularizations have proven useful to boost both computational and statistical efficiency. In some contexts, it is natural to handle more refined structures than pure sparsity, such as for instance group sparsity. Sparse-Group Lasso has recently been introduced in the context of linear regression to enforce sparsity both at the feature and at the group level. We propose the first (provably) safe screening rules for Sparse-Group Lasso, i.e., rules that allow to discard early in the solver features/groups that are inactive at optimal solution. Thanks to efficient dual gap computations relying on the geometric properties of $\epsilon$-norm, safe screening rules for Sparse-Group Lasso lead to significant gains in term of computing time for our coordinate descent implementation.
Learning Treewidth-Bounded Bayesian Networks with Thousands of Variables,We present a method for learning treewidth-bounded Bayesian networks from data sets containing thousands of variables. Bounding the treewidth of a Bayesian network greatly reduces the complexity of inferences.  Yet, being a global property of the graph, it considerably increases the difficulty of the learning process. Our novel algorithm accomplishes this task, scaling both to large domains and to large treewidths. Our novel approach consistently outperforms the state of the art on experiments with up to thousands of variables.
Ancestral Causal Inference,Constraint-based causal discovery from limited data is a notoriously difficult challenge due to the many borderline independence test decisions.  Several approaches to improve the reliability of the predictions by exploiting redundancy in the independence information have been proposed recently. Though promising, existing approaches can still be greatly improved in terms of accuracy and scalability. We present a novel method that reduces the combinatorial explosion of the search space by using a more coarse-grained representation of causal information, drastically reducing computation time. Additionally, we propose a method to score causal predictions based on their confidence. Crucially, our implementation also allows one to easily combine observational and interventional data and to incorporate various types of available background knowledge.  We prove soundness and asymptotic consistency of our method and demonstrate that it can outperform the state-of-the-art on synthetic data, achieving a speedup of several orders of magnitude. We illustrate its practical feasibility by applying it on a challenging protein data set.
Visual Question Answering with Question Representation Update (QRU),Our method aims at reasoning over natural language questions and visual images. Given a natural language question about an image, our model updates the question representation iteratively by selecting image regions relevant to the query and learns to give the correct answer. Our model contains several reasoning layers, exploiting complex visual relations in the visual question answering (VQA) task. The proposed network is end-to-end trainable through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using pre-trained convolutional neural network (CNN) and gated recurrent unit (GRU). Our method is evaluated on challenging datasets of COCO-QA and VQA and yields state-of-the-art performance.
Identification and Overidentification of Linear Structural Equation Models,In this paper, we address the problems of identifying linear structural equation models and discovering the constraints they imply. We first extend the half-trek criterion to cover a broader class of models and apply our extension to finding testable constraints implied by the model. We then show that any semi-Markovian linear model can be recursively decomposed into simpler sub-models, resulting in improved identification and constraint discovery power. Finally, we show that, unlike the existing methods developed for linear models, the resulting method subsumes the identification and constraint discovery algorithms for non-parametric models.
On Valid Optimal Assignment Kernels and Applications to Graph Classification,The success of kernel methods has initiated the design of novel positive semidefinite functions, in particular for structured data. A leading design paradigm for this is the convolution kernel, which decomposes structured objects into their parts and sums over all pairs of parts. Assignment kernels, in contrast, are obtained from an optimal bijection between parts, which can provide a more valid notion of similarity. In general however, optimal assignments yield indefinite functions, which complicates their use in kernel methods. We characterize a class of base kernels used to compare parts that guarantees positive semidefinite optimal assignment kernels. These base kernels give rise to hierarchies from which the optimal assignment kernels are computed in linear time by histogram intersection. We apply these results by developing the Weisfeiler-Lehman optimal assignment kernel for graphs. It provides high classification accuracy on widely-used benchmark data sets improving over the original Weisfeiler-Lehman kernel.
Constraints Based Convex Belief Propagation,Inference in Markov random fields subject to consistency structure is a fundamental problem that arises in many real-life applications. In order to enforce consistency, classical approaches utilize consistency potentials or encode constraints over feasible instances. Unfortunately this comes at the price of a serious computational bottleneck. In this paper we suggest to tackle consistency by incorporating constraints on beliefs. This permits derivation of a closed-form message-passing algorithm which we refer to as the Constraints Based Convex Belief Propagation (CBCBP). Experiments show that CBCBP outperforms the standard approach while being at least an order of magnitude faster.
Combinatorial Energy Learning for Image Segmentation,We introduce a new machine learning approach for image segmentation that uses a neural network to model the conditional energy of a segmentation given an image.  Our approach, combinatorial energy learning for image segmentation (CELIS) places a particular emphasis on modeling the inherent combinatorial nature of dense image segmentation problems.  We propose efficient algorithms for learning deep neural networks to model the energy function, and for local optimization of this energy in the space of supervoxel agglomerations.  We extensively evaluate our method on a publicly available 3-D microscopy dataset with 25 billion voxels of ground truth data. On an 11 billion voxel test set, we find that our method improves volumetric reconstruction accuracy by more than 20% as compared to two state-of-the-art baseline methods: graph-based segmentation of the output of a 3-D convolutional neural network trained to predict boundaries, as well as a random forest classifier trained to agglomerate supervoxels that were generated by a 3-D convolutional neural network.
A scalable end-to-end Gaussian process adapter for irregularly sampled time series classification,We present a general framework for classification of sparse and irregularly-sampled time series. The properties of such time series can result in substantial uncertainty about the values of the underlying temporal processes, while making the data difficult to deal with using standard classification methods that assume fixed-dimensional feature spaces. To address these challenges, we propose an uncertainty-aware classification framework based on a special computational layer we refer to as the Gaussian process adapter that can connect irregularly sampled time series data to any black-box classifier learnable using gradient descent. We show how to scale up the required computations based on combining the structured kernel interpolation framework and the Lanczos approximation method, and how to discriminatively train the Gaussian process adapter in combination with a number of classifiers end-to-end using backpropagation.
Stochastic Variance Reduction Methods for Saddle-Point Problems,We consider convex-concave saddle-point problems where the objective functions may be split in many components, and extend recent stochastic variance reduction methods (such as SVRG or SAGA) to provide the first  large-scale linearly convergent algorithms for this class of problems which are common in machine learning. While the algorithmic extension is straightforward, it comes with challenges and opportunities: (a) the convex minimization analysis does not apply and we use the notion of monotone operators to prove convergence, showing in particular that the same algorithm applies to a larger class of problems, such as variational inequalities,  (b) there are two notions of splits, in terms of functions, or in terms of partial derivatives, (c) the split does need to be done with convex-concave terms, (d) non-uniform sampling is key to an efficient algorithm, both in theory and practice, and (e)  these incremental algorithms can be easily accelerated using a simple extension of the "catalyst" framework,  leading to an algorithm which is always superior to accelerated batch algorithms.
Dimensionality Reduction of Massive Sparse Datasets Using Coresets,In this paper we present a practical solution with performance guarantees to the problem of dimensionality reduction for very large scale sparse matrices.  We show applications of our approach to computing the Principle Component Analysis (PCA) of any $n\times d$ matrix, using one pass over the stream of its rows. Our solution uses coresets: a scaled subset of the $n$ rows that approximates their sum of squared distances to \emph{every} $k$-dimensional \emph{affine} subspace. An open theoretical problem has been to compute such a coreset that is independent of both $n$ and $d$. An open practical problem has been to compute a non-trivial approximation to the PCA of very large but sparse databases such as the Wikipedia document-term matrix in a reasonable time. We answer both of these questions affirmatively. Our main technical result is a new framework for deterministic coreset constructions based on a reduction to the problem of counting items in a stream.
Efficient state-space modularization for planning: theory, behavioral and neural signatures,Even in state-spaces of modest size, planning is plagued by the curse of dimensionality. This problem is particularly acute in human and animal cognition given the limited capacity of working memory, and the time pressures under which planning often occurs in the natural environment. Hierarchically organized modular representations have long been suggested to underlie the capacity of biological systems to efficiently and flexibly plan in complex environments. However, the principles underlying efficient modularization remain obscure, making it difficult to identify its behavioral and neural signatures. Here, we develop a normative theory of efficient state-space representations which partitions an environment into distinct modules by minimizing the average (information theoretic) description length of planning within the environment, thereby optimally trading off the complexity of planning across and within modules. We show that such optimal representations provide a unifying account for a diverse range of hitherto unrelated phenomena at multiple levels of behavior and neural representation.
Adaptive Newton Method for Empirical Risk Minimization to Statistical Accuracy,We consider empirical risk minimization for large-scale datasets. We introduce Ada Newton as an adaptive algorithm that uses Newton's method with adaptive sample sizes. The main idea of Ada Newton is to increase the size of the training set by a factor larger than one in a way that the minimization variable for the current training set is in the local neighborhood of the optimal argument of the next training set. This allows to exploit the quadratic convergence property of Newton's method and reach the statistical accuracy of each training set with only one iteration of Newton's method. We show theoretically that we can iteratively increase the sample size while applying single Newton iterations without line search and staying within the statistical accuracy of the regularized empirical risk. In particular, we can double the size of the training set in each iteration when the number of samples is sufficiently large. Numerical experiments on various datasets confirm the possibility of increasing the sample size by factor 2 at each iteration which implies that Ada Newton achieves the statistical accuracy of the full training set with about two passes over the dataset.
RETAIN: An Interpretable Predictive Model for Healthcare using Reverse Time Attention Mechanism,Accuracy and interpretability are two dominant features of successful predictive models. Typically, a choice must be made in favor of complex black box models such as recurrent neural networks (RNN) for accuracy versus less accurate but more interpretable traditional models such as logistic regression. This tradeoff poses challenges in medicine where both accuracy and interpretability are important. We addressed this challenge by developing the REverse Time AttentIoN model (RETAIN) for application to Electronic Health Records (EHR) data. RETAIN achieves high accuracy while remaining clinically interpretable and is based on a two-level neural attention model that detects influential past visits and significant clinical variables within those visits (e.g. key diagnoses). RETAIN mimics physician practice by attending the EHR data in a reverse time order so that recent clinical visits are likely to receive higher attention. RETAIN was tested on a large health system EHR dataset with 14 million visits completed by 263K patients over an 8 year period and demonstrated predictive accuracy and computational scalability comparable to state-of-the-art methods such as RNN, and ease of interpretability comparable to traditional models.
Joint quantile regression in vector-valued RKHSs,Addressing the will to give a more complete picture than an average relationship provided by standard regression, a novel framework for estimating and predicting simultaneously several conditional quantiles is introduced. The proposed methodology leverages kernel-based multi-task learning to curb the embarrassing phenomenon of quantile crossing, with a one-step estimation procedure and no post-processing. Moreover, this framework comes along with theoretical guarantees and an efficient coordinate descent learning algorithm. Numerical experiments on benchmark and real datasets highlight the enhancements of our approach regarding the prediction error, the crossing occurrences and the training time.
Learnable Visual Markers,We propose a new approach to designing visual markers (analogous to QR-codes, markers for augmented reality, and robotic fiducial tags) based on the advances in deep generative networks. In our approach, the markers are obtained as color images synthesized by a deep network from input bit strings, whereas another deep network is trained to recover the bit strings back from the photos of these markers. The two networks are trained simultaneously in a joint backpropagation process that takes characteristic photometric and geometric distortions associated with marker fabrication and capture into account. Additionally, a stylization loss based on statistics of activations in a pretrained classification network can be inserted into the learning in order to shift the marker appearance towards some texture prototype. In the experiments, we demonstrate that the markers obtained using our approach are capable of retaining bit strings that are long enough to be practical. The ability to automatically adapt markers according to the usage scenario and the desired capacity as well as the ability to combine information encoding with artistic stylization are the unique properties of our approach. As a byproduct, our approach provides an insight on the structure of patterns that are most suitable for recognition by ConvNets and on their ability to distinguish composite patterns.
Exponential expressivity in deep neural networks through transient chaos,We combine Riemannian geometry with the mean field theory of high dimensional chaos to study the nature of signal propagation in deep neural networks with random weights. Our results reveal a phase transition in the expressivity of random deep networks, with networks in the chaotic phase computing nonlinear functions whose global curvature grows exponentially with depth, but not with width. We prove that this generic class of random functions cannot be efficiently computed by any shallow network, going beyond prior work that restricts their analysis to single functions. Moreover, we formally quantify and demonstrate the long conjectured idea that deep networks can disentangle exponentially curved manifolds in input space into flat manifolds in hidden space.  Our theoretical framework for analyzing the expressive power of deep networks is broadly applicable and provides a basis for quantifying previously abstract notions about the geometry of deep functions.
On Multiplicative Integration with Recurrent Neural Networks,We introduce a general simple structural design called Multiplicative Integration (MI) to improve recurrent neural networks (RNNs). MI changes the way of how the information flow gets integrated in the computational building block of an RNN, while introducing almost no extra parameters. The new structure can be easily embedded into many popular RNN models, including LSTMs and GRUs. We empirically analyze its learning behaviour and conduct evaluations on several tasks using different RNN models. Our experimental results demonstrate that Multiplicative Integration can provide a substantial performance boost over many of the existing RNN models.
Interpretable Nonlinear Dynamic Modeling of Neural Trajectories,A central challenge in neuroscience is understanding how neural system implements computation through its dynamics. We propose a nonlinear time series model aimed at characterizing interpretable dynamics from neural trajectories. Our model assumes low-dimensional continuous dynamics in a finite volume. It incorporates a prior assumption about globally contractional dynamics to avoid overly enthusiastic extrapolation outside of the support of observed trajectories. We show that our model can recover qualitative features of the phase portrait such as attractors, slow points, and bifurcations, while also producing reliable long-term future predictions in a variety of dynamical models and in real neural data.
Globally Optimal Training of Generalized Polynomial Neural Networks with Nonlinear Spectral Methods,The optimization problem behind neural networks is highly non-convex. Training with stochastic gradient descent and variants requires careful parameter tuning and provides no guarantee to achieve the global optimum. In contrast we show under quite weak assumptions on the data that a particular class of feedforward  neural networks can be trained globally optimal with a linear convergence rate. Up to our knowledge this is the first practically feasible method which achieves such a guarantee. While the method can in principle be applied to deep networks, we restrict ourselves for simplicity in this paper to one- and two hidden layer networks. Our experiments confirms that these models are already rich enough to achieve good performance on a series of real-world datasets.
Linear Feature Encoding for Reinforcement Learning,Feature construction is of vital importance in reinforcement learning, as the quality of a value function or policy is largely determined by the corresponding features. The recent successes of deep reinforcement learning (RL) only increase the importance of understanding feature construction. Typical deep RL approaches use a linear output layer, which means that deep RL can be interpreted as a feature construction/encoding network followed by linear value function approximation. This paper develops and evaluates a theory of linear feature encoding. We extend theoretical results on feature quality for linear value function approximation from the uncontrolled case to the controlled case. We then develop a supervised linear feature encoding method that is motivated by insights from linear value function approximation theory, as well as empirical successes from deep RL. The resulting encoder is a surprisingly effective method for linear value function approximation using raw images as inputs.
Graphical Time Warping for Joint Alignment of Multiple Curves,Dynamic time warping (DTW) is a fundamental technique in time series analysis for comparing one curve to another using a flexible time-warping function. However, it was designed to compare a single pair of curves. In many applications, such as in metabolomics and image series analysis, alignment is simultaneously needed for multiple pairs. Because the underlying warping functions are often related, independent application of DTW to each pair is a sub-optimal solution. Yet, it is largely unknown how to efficiently conduct a joint alignment with all warping functions simultaneously considered, since any given warping function is constrained by the others and dynamic programming cannot be applied. In this paper, we show that the joint alignment problem can be transformed into a network flow problem and thus can be exactly and efficiently solved by the max flow algorithm, with a guarantee of global optimality. We name the proposed approach graphical time warping (GTW), emphasizing the graphical nature of the solution and that the dependency structure of the warping functions can be represented by a graph. Modifications of DTW, such as windowing and weighting, are readily derivable within GTW. We also discuss optimal tuning of parameters and hyperparameters in GTW. We illustrate the power of GTW using both synthetic data and a real case study of an astrocyte calcium movie.
Mixed Linear Regression with Multiple Components,In this paper, we study the mixed linear regression (MLR) problem, where the goal is to recover multiple underlying linear models from their unlabeled linear measurements. We propose a non-convex objective function which we show is {\em locally strongly convex} in the neighborhood of the ground truth. We use a tensor method for initialization so that the initial models are in the local strong convexity region. We then employ general convex optimization algorithms to minimize the objective function. To the best of our knowledge, our approach provides first exact recovery guarantees for the MLR problem with $K \geq 2$ components. Moreover,  our method has near-optimal computational complexity $\tilde O (Nd)$ as well as near-optimal sample complexity $\tilde O (d)$ for {\em constant} $K$. Furthermore, we show that our non-convex formulation can be extended to solving the {\em subspace clustering} problem as well. In particular, when initialized within a small constant distance to the true subspaces, our method converges to the global optima (and recovers true subspaces) in time {\em linear} in the number of points. Furthermore, our empirical results indicate that even with random initialization, our approach converges to the global optima in linear time, providing speed-up of up to two orders of magnitude.
Statistical Inference for Pairwise Graphical Models Using Score Matching,Probabilistic graphical models have been widely used to model complex systems and aid scientific discoveries. As a result, there is a large body of literature focused on consistent model selection. However, scientists are often interested in understanding uncertainty associated with the estimated parameters, which current literature has not addressed thoroughly. In this paper, we propose a novel estimator for edge parameters for pairwise graphical models based on Hyv\"arinen scoring rule. Hyv\"arinen scoring rule is especially useful in cases where the normalizing constant cannot be  obtained efficiently in a closed form. We prove that the estimator is $\sqrt{n}$-consistent and asymptotically Normal. This result allows us to construct confidence intervals for edge parameters, as well as, hypothesis tests.  We establish our results under conditions that are typically assumed in the literature for consistent estimation. However, we do not require that the estimator consistently recovers the graph structure. In particular, we prove that the asymptotic distribution of the estimator is robust to model selection mistakes and uniformly valid for a large number of data-generating processes. We illustrate validity of our estimator through extensive simulation studies.
Hardness of Online Sleeping Combinatorial Optimization Problems,We show that several online combinatorial optimization problems that admit efficient no-regret algorithms become computationally hard in the sleeping setting where a subset of actions becomes unavailable in each round. Specifically, we show that the sleeping versions of these problems are at least as hard as PAC learning DNF expressions, a long standing open problem. We show hardness for the sleeping versions of Online Shortest Paths, Online Minimum Spanning Tree, Online k-Subsets, Online k-Truncated Permutations, Online Minimum Cut, and Online Bipartite Matching. The hardness result for the sleeping version of the Online Shortest Paths problem resolves an open problem presented at COLT 2015 [Koolen et al., 2015].
An algorithm for L1 nearest neighbor search via monotonic embedding,Fast algorithms for nearest neighbor (NN) search have in large part focused on L2 distance. Here we develop an approach for L1 distance that begins with an explicit and exact embedding of the points into L2. We show how this embedding can efficiently be combined with random projection methods for L2 NN search, such as locality-sensitive hashing or random projection trees. We rigorously establish the correctness of the methodology and show by experimentation that it is competitive in practice with available alternatives.
Local Maxima in the Likelihood of Gaussian Mixture Models: Structural Results and Algorithmic Consequences,We provide two fundamental results on the population (infinite-sample) likelihood function of Gaussian mixture models with $M \geq 3$ components. Our first main result shows that the population likelihood function has bad local maxima even in the special case of equally-weighted mixtures of well-separated and spherical Gaussians. We prove that the log-likelihood value of these bad local maxima can be arbitrarily worse than that of any global optimum, thereby resolving an open question of Srebro (2007). Our second main result shows that the EM algorithm (or a first-order variant of it) with random initialization will converge to bad critical points with probability at least $1-e^{-\Omega(M)}$. We further establish that a first-order variant of EM will not converge to strict saddle points almost surely, indicating that the poor performance of the first-order method can be attributed to the existence of bad local maxima rather than bad saddle points. Overall, our results highlight the necessity of careful initialization when using the EM algorithm in practice, even when applied in highly favorable settings.
Learning User Perceived Clusters with Feature-Level Supervision,Semi-supervised clustering algorithms have been proposed to identify data clusters that align with user perceived ones via the aid of side information such as seeds or pairwise constrains. However, traditional side information is mostly at the instance level and subject to the sampling bias, where non-randomly sampled instances in the supervision can mislead the algorithms to wrong clusters. In this paper, we propose learning from the feature-level supervision. We show that this kind of supervision can be easily obtained in the form of perception vectors in many applications. Then we present novel algorithms, called Perception Embedded (PE) clustering, that exploit the perception vectors as well as traditional side information to find clusters perceived by the user. Extensive experiments are conducted on real datasets and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of PE empirically.
InfoGAN: Interpretable Representation Learning by Information Maximizing Generative Adversarial Nets,This paper describes InfoGAN, an information-theoretic extension to the Generative Adversarial Network that is able to learn disentangled representations in a completely unsupervised manner. InfoGAN is a generative adversarial network that also maximizes the mutual information between a small subset of the latent variables and the observation. We derive a lower bound to the mutual information objective that can be optimized efficiently, and show that our training procedure can be interpreted as a variation of the Wake-Sleep algorithm. Specifically, InfoGAN successfully disentangles writing styles from digit shapes on the MNIST dataset, pose from lighting of 3D rendered images, and background digits from the central digit on the SVHN dataset. It also discovers visual concepts that include hair styles, presence/absence of eyeglasses, and emotions on the CelebA face dataset. Experiments show that InfoGAN learns interpretable representations that are competitive with representations learned by existing fully supervised methods.
Neural Universal Discrete Denoiser,We present a new framework of applying deep neural networks (DNN) to devise a universal discrete denoiser. Unlike other approaches that utilize supervised learning for denoising, we do not require any additional training data. In such setting, while the ground-truth label, i.e., the clean data, is not available, we devise ``pseudo-labels'' and a novel objective function such that DNN can be trained in a same way as supervised learning to become a discrete denoiser. We experimentally show that our resulting algorithm, dubbed as Neural DUDE, significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art in several applications with a systematic rule of choosing the hyperparameter, which is an attractive feature in practice.
A primal-dual method for conic constrained distributed optimization problems,We consider cooperative multi-agent consensus optimization problems over an undirected network of agents, where only those agents connected by an edge can directly communicate. The objective is to minimize the sum of agent-specific composite convex functions over agent-specific private conic constraint sets; hence, the optimal consensus decision should lie in the intersection of these private sets. We provide convergence rates in sub-optimality, infeasibility and consensus violation; examine the effect of underlying network topology on the convergence rates of the proposed decentralized algorithms; and show how to extend these methods to handle time-varying communication networks.
Eliciting Categorical Data for Optimal Aggregation,Models for collecting and aggregating categorical data on crowdsourcing platforms typically fall into two broad categories: those assuming agents honest and consistent but with heterogeneous error rates, and those assuming agents strategic and seek to maximize their expected reward. The former often leads to tractable aggregation of elicited data, while the latter usually focuses on optimal elicitation and does not consider aggregation. In this paper, we develop a Bayesian model, wherein agents have differing quality of information, but also respond to incentives. Our model generalizes both categories and enables the joint exploration of optimal elicitation and aggregation. This model enables our exploration, both analytically and experimentally, of optimal aggregation of categorical data and optimal multiple-choice interface design.
Depth from a Single Image by Harmonizing Overcomplete Local Network Predictions,A single color image can contain many cues informative towards different aspects of local geometric structure. We approach the problem of monocular depth estimation by using a neural network to produce a mid-level representation that summarizes these cues. This network is trained to characterize local scene geometry by predicting, at every image location, depth derivatives of different orders, orientations and scales. However, instead of a single estimate for each derivative, the network outputs probability distributions that allow it to express confidence about some coefficients, and ambiguity about others. Scene depth is then estimated by harmonizing this overcomplete set of network predictions, using a globalization procedure that finds a single consistent depth map that best matches all the local derivative distributions. We demonstrate the efficacy of this approach through evaluation on the NYU v2 depth data set.
SEBOOST - Boosting Stochastic Learning Using Subspace Optimization Techniques,We present SEBOOST, a technique for boosting the performance of existing stochastic optimization methods. SEBOOST applies a secondary optimization process in the subspace spanned by the last steps and descent directions. The method was inspired by the SESOP optimization method for large-scale problems, and has been adapted for the stochastic learning framework. It can be applied on top of any existing optimization method with no need to tweak the internal algorithm. We show that the method is able to boost the performance of different algorithms, and make them more robust to changes in their hyper-parameters. As the boosting steps of SEBOOST are applied between large sets of descent steps, the additional subspace optimization hardly increases the overall computational burden. We introduce two hyper-parameters that control the balance between the baseline method and the secondary optimization process. The method was evaluated on several deep learning tasks, demonstrating promising results.
Reshaped Wirtinger Flow for Solving Quadratic System of Equations,We study the problem of recovering a vector $\bx\in \bbR^n$ from its magnitude measurements $y_i=|\langle \ba_i, \bx\rangle|, i=1,..., m$. Our work is along the line of the Wirtinger flow (WF) approach \citet{candes2015phase}, which solves the problem by minimizing a nonconvex loss function via a gradient algorithm and can be shown to converge to a global optimal point under good initialization. In contrast to the smooth loss function used in WF, we adopt a nonsmooth but lower-order loss function, and design a gradient-like algorithm (referred to as reshaped-WF). We show that for random Gaussian measurements, reshaped-WF enjoys geometric convergence to a global optimal point as long as the number $m$ of measurements is at the order of $\cO(n)$, where $n$ is the dimension of the unknown $\bx$. This improves the sample complexity of WF, and achieves  the same sample complexity as truncated-WF \citet{chen2015solving} but without truncation at gradient step. Furthermore, reshaped-WF costs less computationally than WF, and runs faster numerically than both WF and truncated-WF. Bypassing higher-order variables in the loss function and truncations in the gradient loop, analysis of reshaped-WF is simplified.
Training and Evaluating Multimodal Word Embeddings with Large-scale Web Annotated Images,In this paper, we focus on training and evaluating effective word embeddings with both text and visual information. More specifically, we introduce a large-scale dataset with 300 million sentences describing over 40 million images crawled and downloaded from publicly available Pins (i.e. an image with sentence descriptions uploaded by users) on Pinterest. This dataset is more than 200 times larger than MS COCO, the standard large-scale image dataset with sentence descriptions. In addition, we construct an evaluation dataset to directly assess the effectiveness of word embeddings in terms of finding semantically similar or related words and phrases. The word/phrase pairs in this evaluation dataset are collected from the click data with millions of users in an image search system, thus contain rich semantic relationships. Based on these datasets, we propose and compare several Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) based multimodal (text and image) models. Experiments show that our model benefits from incorporating the visual information into the word embeddings, and a weight sharing strategy is crucial for learning such multimodal embeddings. The project page is: http://www.stat.ucla.edu/~junhua.mao/multimodal_embedding.html (The datasets introduced in this work will be gradually released on the project page.).
Online ICA: Understanding Global Dynamics of Nonconvex Optimization via Diffusion Processes,Solving statistical learning problems often involves nonconvex optimization. Despite the empirical success of nonconvex statistical optimization methods, their global dynamics, especially convergence to the desirable local minima, remain less well understood in theory. In this paper, we propose a new analytic paradigm based on diffusion processes to characterize the global dynamics of nonconvex statistical optimization. As a concrete example, we study stochastic gradient descent (SGD) for the tensor decomposition formulation of independent component analysis. In particular, we cast different phases of SGD into diffusion processes, i.e., solutions to stochastic differential equations. Initialized from an unstable equilibrium, the global dynamics of SGD transit over three consecutive phases: (i) an unstable Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process slowly departing from the initialization, (ii) the solution to an ordinary differential equation, which quickly evolves towards the desirable local minimum, and (iii) a stable Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process oscillating around the desirable local minimum. Our proof techniques are based upon Stroock and Varadhans weak convergence of Markov chains to diffusion processes, which are of independent interest.
VIME: Variational Information Maximizing Exploration,Scalable and effective exploration remains a key challenge in reinforcement learning (RL). While there are methods with optimality guarantees in the setting of discrete state and action spaces, these methods cannot be applied in high-dimensional deep RL scenarios. As such, most contemporary RL relies on simple heuristics such as epsilon-greedy exploration or adding Gaussian noise to the controls. This paper introduces Variational Information Maximizing Exploration (VIME), an exploration strategy based on maximization of information gain about the agent's belief of environment dynamics. We propose a practical implementation, using variational inference in Bayesian neural networks which efficiently handles continuous state and action spaces. VIME modifies the MDP reward function, and can be applied with several different underlying RL algorithms. We demonstrate that VIME achieves significantly better performance compared to heuristic exploration methods across a variety of continuous control tasks and algorithms, including tasks with very sparse rewards.
Deconvolving Feedback Loops in Recommender Systems,Collaborative filtering is a popular technique to infer users' preferences on new content based on the collective information of all users preferences. Recommender systems then use this information to make personalized suggestions to users. When users accept these recommendations it creates a feedback loop in the recommender system, and these loops iteratively influence the collaborative filtering algorithm's predictions over time. We investigate whether it is possible to identify items affected by these feedback loops. We state sufficient assumptions to deconvolve the feedback loops while keeping the inverse solution tractable. We furthermore develop a metric to unravel the recommender system's influence on the entire user-item rating matrix. We use this metric on synthetic and real-world datasets to (1) identify the extent to which the recommender system affects the final rating matrix, (2) rank frequently recommended items, and (3) distinguish whether a user's rated item was recommended or an intrinsic preference. Our results indicate that it is possible to recover the ratings matrix of intrinsic user preferences using a single snapshot of the ratings matrix without any temporal information.
A Non-parametric Learning Method for Confidently Estimating Patient's Clinical State and Dynamics,Estimating patient's clinical state from multiple concurrent physiological streams plays an important role in determining if a therapeutic intervention is necessary and for triaging patients in the hospital. In this paper we construct a non-parametric learning algorithm to estimate the clinical state of a patient. The algorithm addresses several known challenges with clinical state estimation such as eliminating bias introduced by therapeutic intervention censoring, increasing the timeliness of state estimation while ensuring a sufficient accuracy, and the ability to detect anomalous clinical states. These benefits are obtained by combining the tools of non-parametric Bayesian inference, permutation testing, and generalizations of the empirical Bernstein inequality. The algorithm is validated using real-world data from a cancer ward in a large academic hospital.
Semiparametric Differential Graph Models,In many cases of network analysis, it is more attractive to study how a network varies under  different conditions than an individual static network. We propose a novel graphical model, namely Latent Differential Graph Model, where the networks under two different conditions are represented by two semiparametric elliptical distributions respectively, and the variation of these two networks (i.e., differential graph) is characterized by the difference between their latent precision matrices. We propose an estimator for the differential graph based on quasi likelihood maximization with nonconvex regularization. We show that our estimator attains a faster statistical rate in parameter estimation than the state-of-the-art methods, and enjoys oracle property under mild conditions. Thorough experiments on both synthetic and real world data support our theory.
A Non-convex One-Pass Framework for Generalized Factorization Machine and Rank-One Matrix Sensing,We develop an efficient alternating framework for learning a generalized version of Factorization Machine (gFM) on steaming data with provable guarantees. When the instances are sampled from $d$ dimensional random Gaussian vectors and the target second order coefficient matrix in gFM is of rank $k$, our algorithm converges linearly, achieves $O(\epsilon)$ recovery error after retrieving $O(k^{3}d\log(1/\epsilon))$ training instances, consumes $O(kd)$ memory in one-pass of dataset and only requires matrix-vector product operations in each iteration. The key ingredient of our framework is a construction of an estimation sequence  endowed with a so-called Conditionally Independent RIP condition (CI-RIP). As special cases of gFM, our framework can be applied to symmetric or asymmetric rank-one matrix sensing problems, such as inductive matrix completion and phase retrieval.
Sublinear Time Orthogonal Tensor Decomposition,A recent work (Wang et. al., NIPS 2015) gives the fastest known algorithms for orthogonal tensor decomposition with provable guarantees. Their algorithm is based on computing sketches of the input tensor, which requires reading the entire input. We show in a number of cases one can achieve the same theoretical guarantees in sublinear time, i.e., even without reading most of the input tensor. Instead of using sketches to estimate inner products in tensor decomposition algorithms, we use importance sampling. To achieve sublinear time, we need to know the norms of tensor slices, and we show how to do this in a number of important cases. For symmetric tensors $ T = \sum_{i=1}^k \lambda_i u_i^{\otimes p}$ with $\lambda_i > 0$ for all i, we estimate such norms in sublinear time whenever p is even. For the important case of p = 3 and small values of k, we can also estimate such norms. For asymmetric tensors sublinear time is not possible in general, but we show if the tensor slice norms are just slightly below $\| T \|_F$ then sublinear time is again possible. One of the main strengths of our work is empirical - in a number of cases our algorithm is orders of magnitude faster than existing methods with the same accuracy.
Achieving budget-optimality with adaptive schemes in crowdsourcing,Adaptive schemes, where tasks are assigned based on the data collected thus far, are widely used in practical crowdsourcing systems to efficiently allocate the budget. However, existing theoretical analyses of crowdsourcing systems suggest that the gain of adaptive task assignments is minimal. To bridge this gap, we investigate this question under a strictly more general probabilistic model, which has been recently introduced to model practical crowdsourcing data sets. Under this generalized Dawid-Skene model, we characterize the fundamental trade-off between budget and accuracy, and introduce a novel adaptive scheme that matches this fundamental limit. We further quantify the gain of adaptivity, by comparing the trade-off with the one for non-adaptive schemes, and confirm that the gain is significant and can be made arbitrarily large depending on the distribution of the difficulty level of the tasks at hand.
Joint Line Segmentation and Transcription for End-to-End Handwritten Paragraph Recognition,Offline handwriting recognition systems require cropped text line images for both training and recognition. On the one hand, the annotation of position and transcript at line level is costly to obtain. On the other hand, automatic line segmentation algorithms are prone to errors, compromising the subsequent recognition.  In this paper, we propose a modification of the popular and efficient Multi-Dimensional Long Short-Term Memory Recurrent Neural Networks (MDLSTM-RNNs) to enable end-to-end processing of handwritten paragraphs. More particularly, we replace the collapse layer transforming the two-dimensional representation into a sequence of predictions by a recurrent version which can select one line at a time.  In the proposed model, a neural network performs a kind of implicit line segmentation by computing attention weights on the image representation. The experiments on paragraphs of Rimes and IAM databases yield results that are competitive with those of networks trained at line level, and constitute a significant step towards end-to-end transcription of full documents.
Human Decision-Making under Limited Time,Abstract Subjective expected utility theory assumes that decision-makers possess unlimited computational resources to reason about their choices; however, virtually all decisions in everyday life are made under resource constraints---i.e. decision-makers are bounded in their rationality. Here we experimentally tested the predictions made by a formalization of bounded rationality based on ideas from statistical mechanics and information-theory. We systematically tested human subjects in their ability to solve combinatorial puzzles under different time limitations. We found that our bounded-rational model accounts well for the data. The decomposition of the fitted model parameter into the subjects' expected utility function and resource parameter provide interesting insight into the subjects' information capacity limits. Our results confirm that humans gradually fall back on their learned prior choice patterns when confronted with increasing resource limitations.
Joint M-Best-Diverse Labelings as a Parametric Submodular Minimization,We consider the problem of jointly inferring the $M$-best diverse labelings for a binary (high-order) submodular energy of a graphical model. Recently, it was shown that this problem can be solved to a global optimum, for many practically interesting diversity measures. It was noted that the labelings are, so-called, nested.  This nestedness property also holds for labelings of a class of parametric submodular minimization problems, where different values of the global parameter $\gamma$ give rise to different solutions. The popular example of the parametric submodular minimization is the monotonic parametric max-flow problem, which is also widely used for computing multiple labelings.  As the main contribution of this work we establish a close relationship between diversity with submodular energies and the parametric submodular minimization. In particular, the joint $M$-best diverse labelings can be obtained by running a non-parametric submodular minimization (in the special case - max-flow) solver for $M$ different values of $\gamma$ in parallel, for certain diversity measures. Importantly, the values for~$\gamma$ can be computed in a closed form in advance, prior to any optimization. These theoretical results suggest two simple yet efficient algorithms for the joint $M$-best diverse problem, which outperform competitors in terms of runtime and quality of results. In particular, as we show in the paper, the new methods compute the exact $M$-best diverse labelings faster than a popular method of Batra et al., which in some sense only obtains approximate solutions.
Even Faster SVD Decomposition Yet Without Agonizing Pain,We study k-SVD that is to obtain the first k singular vectors of a matrix A approximately. Recently, a few breakthroughs have been discovered on $k$-SVD: Musco and Musco [1] provided the first gap-free theorem for the block Krylov method, Shamir [2] discovered the first variance-reduction stochastic method, and Bhojanapalli et al. [3] provided the fastest $O(nnz(A) + poly(1/eps))$-type of algorithm using alternating minimization.  In this paper, we improve the above breakthroughs by providing a new framework for solving k-SVD. In particular, we obtain faster gap-free convergence speed outperforming [1], we obtain the first accelerated AND stochastic method outperforming [3]. In the NNZ running-time regime, we outperform [3] without even using alternating minimization for certain parameter regimes.
Fast and accurate spike sorting of high-channel count probes with KiloSort,New silicon technology is enabling large-scale electrophysiological recordings in vivo from hundreds to thousands of channels. Interpreting these recordings requires scalable and accurate automated methods for spike sorting, which should minimize the time required for manual curation of the results. Here we introduce KiloSort, a new integrated spike sorting framework that uses template matching both during spike detection and during spike clustering. KiloSort models the electrical voltage as a sum of template waveforms triggered on the spike times, which allows overlapping spikes to be identified and resolved. Unlike previous algorithms that compress the data with PCA, KiloSort operates on the raw data which allows it to construct a more accurate model of the waveforms. Processing times are faster than in previous algorithms thanks to batch-based optimization on GPUs. We compare KiloSort to an established algorithm and show favorable performance, at much reduced processing times. A novel post-clustering merging step based on the continuity of the templates further reduced substantially the number of manual operations required on this data, for the neurons with near-zero error rates, paving the way for fully automated spike sorting of multichannel electrode recordings.
Batched Gaussian Process Bandit Optimization via Determinantal Point Processes,Gaussian Process bandit optimization has emerged as a powerful tool for optimizing noisy black box functions. One example in machine learning is hyper-parameter optimization where each evaluation of the target function may require training a model which may involve days or even weeks of computation. Most methods for this so-called Bayesian optimization only allow sequential exploration of the parameter space. However, it is often desirable to propose batches or sets of parameter values to explore simultaneously, especially when there are large parallel processing facilities at our disposal. Batch methods require modeling the interaction between the different evaluations in the batch, which can be expensive in complex scenarios. In this paper, we propose a new approach for parallelizing Bayesian optimization by modeling the diversity of a batch via Determinantal point processes (DPPs) whose kernels are learned automatically. This allows us to generalize a previous result as well as prove better regret bounds based on DPP sampling. Our experiments on a variety of synthetic and real-world robotics and hyper-parameter optimization tasks indicate that our DPP-based methods, especially those based on DPP sampling, outperform state-of-the-art methods.
Stochastic Multiple Choice Learning for Training Diverse Deep Ensembles,Many practical perception systems exist within larger processes which often include interactions with users or additional components that are capable of evaluating the quality of predicted solutions. In these contexts, it is beneficial to provide these oracle mechanisms with multiple highly likely hypotheses rather than a single prediction. In this work, we pose the task of producing multiple outputs as a learning problem over an ensemble of deep networks -- introducing a novel stochastic gradient descent based approach to minimize the loss with respect to an oracle. Our method is simple to implement, agnostic to both architecture and loss function, and parameter-free. Our approach achieves lower oracle error compared to existing methods on a wide range of tasks and deep architectures. We also show qualitatively that solutions produced from our approach often provide interpretable representations of task ambiguity.
Optimal Sparse Linear Encoders and Sparse PCA,Principal components analysis~(PCA) is the optimal linear  encoder of data. Sparse linear encoders (e.g., sparse PCA) produce more interpretable features that  can promote better generalization. (\rn{1}) Given a level of sparsity, what is the best approximation to PCA?  (\rn{2}) Are there efficient algorithms which can achieve this optimal  combinatorial tradeoff? We answer both questions by  providing the first polynomial-time algorithms to construct \emph{optimal} sparse linear auto-encoders; additionally, we demonstrate the performance of our algorithms on real data.
Using Social Dynamics to Make Individual Predictions: Variational Inference with a Stochastic Kinetic Model,Social dynamics is concerned primarily with interactions among individuals and the resulting group behaviors, modeling the temporal evolution of social systems via the interactions of individuals within these systems. In particular, the availability of large-scale data from social networks and sensor networks offers an unprecedented opportunity to predict state-changing events at the individual level. Examples of such events include disease transmission, opinion transition in elections, and rumor propagation. Unlike previous research focusing on the collective effects of social systems, this study makes efficient inferences at the individual level. In order to cope with dynamic interactions among a large number of individuals, we introduce the stochastic kinetic model to capture adaptive transition probabilities and propose an efficient variational inference algorithm the complexity of which grows linearly  rather than exponentially with the number of individuals. To validate this method, we have performed epidemic-dynamics experiments on wireless sensor network data collected from more than ten thousand people over three years. The proposed algorithm was used to track disease transmission and predict the probability of infection for each individual. Our results demonstrate that this method is more efficient than sampling while nonetheless achieving high accuracy.
Learning Additive Exponential Family Graphical Models via $\ell_{2,1}$-norm Regularized M-Estimation,We investigate a subclass of exponential family graphical models of which the sufficient statistics are defined by arbitrary additive forms. We propose two $\ell_{2,1}$-norm regularized maximum likelihood estimators to learn the model parameters from i.i.d. samples. The first one is a joint MLE estimator which estimates all the parameters simultaneously. The second one is a node-wise conditional MLE estimator which estimates the parameters for each node individually. For both estimators, statistical analysis shows that under mild conditions the extra flexibility gained by the additive exponential family models comes at almost no cost of statistical efficiency. A Monte-Carlo approximation method is developed to efficiently optimize the proposed estimators. The advantages of our estimators over Gaussian graphical models and Nonparanormal estimators are demonstrated on synthetic and real data sets.
Residual Networks Behave Like Ensembles of Relatively Shallow Networks,In this work we propose a novel interpretation of residual networks showing that they can be seen as a collection of many paths of differing length. Moreover, residual networks seem to enable very deep networks by leveraging only the short paths during training. To support this observation, we rewrite residual networks as an explicit collection of paths. Unlike traditional models, paths through residual networks vary in length. Further, a lesion study reveals that these paths show ensemble-like behavior in the sense that they do not strongly depend on each other. Finally, and most surprising, most paths are shorter than one might expect, and only the short paths are needed during training, as longer paths do not contribute any gradient. For example, most of the gradient in a residual network with 110 layers comes from paths that are only 10-34 layers deep. Our results reveal one of the key characteristics that seem to enable the training of very deep networks: Residual networks avoid the vanishing gradient problem by introducing short paths which can carry gradient throughout the extent of very deep networks.
Full-Capacity Unitary Recurrent Neural Networks,Recurrent neural networks are powerful models for processing sequential data, but they are generally plagued by vanishing and exploding gradient problems. Unitary recurrent neural networks (uRNNs), which use unitary recurrence matrices, have recently been proposed as a means to avoid these issues. However, in previous experiments, the recurrence matrices were restricted to be a product of parameterized unitary matrices, and an open question remains: when does such a parameterization fail to represent all unitary matrices, and how does this restricted representational capacity limit what can be learned? To address this question, we propose full-capacity uRNNs that optimize their recurrence matrix over all unitary matrices, leading to significantly improved performance over uRNNs that use a restricted-capacity recurrence matrix. Our contribution consists of two main components. First, we provide a theoretical argument to determine if a unitary parameterization has restricted capacity. Using this argument, we show that a recently proposed unitary parameterization has restricted capacity for hidden state dimension greater than 7. Second,we show how a complete, full-capacity unitary recurrence matrix can be optimized over the differentiable manifold of unitary matrices. The resulting multiplicative gradient step is very simple and does not require gradient clipping or learning rate adaptation. We confirm the utility of our claims by empirically evaluating our new full-capacity uRNNs on both synthetic and natural data, achieving superior performance compared to both LSTMs and the original restricted-capacity uRNNs.
Quantum Perceptron Models,We demonstrate how quantum computation can provide non-trivial improvements in the computational and statistical complexity of the perceptron model. We develop two quantum algorithms for perceptron learning. The first algorithm exploits quantum information processing to determine a separating hyperplane using a number of steps sublinear in the number of data points $N$, namely $O(\sqrt{N})$. The second algorithm illustrates how the classical mistake bound of $O(\frac{1}{\gamma^2})$ can be further improved to $O(\frac{1}{\sqrt{\gamma}})$ through quantum means, where $\gamma$ denotes the margin. Such improvements are achieved through the application of quantum amplitude amplification to the version space interpretation of the perceptron model.
Mapping Estimation for Discrete Optimal Transport,We are interested in the computation of the transport map of an Optimal Transport problem. Most of the computational approaches of Optimal Transport use the Kantorovich relaxation of the problem to learn a probabilistic coupling $\mgamma$ but do not address the problem of learning the underlying transport map $\funcT$ linked to the original Monge problem. Consequently, it lowers the potential usage of such methods in contexts where out-of-samples computations are mandatory. In this paper we propose a new way to jointly learn the coupling and an approximation of the transport map. We use a jointly convex formulation which can be efficiently optimized. Additionally, jointly learning the coupling and the transport map allows to smooth the result of the Optimal Transport and generalize it to out-of-samples examples. Empirically, we show the interest and the relevance of our method in two tasks: domain adaptation and image editing.
Stochastic Gradient Geodesic MCMC Methods,We propose two stochastic gradient MCMC methods for sampling from Bayesian posterior distributions defined on Riemann manifolds with a known geodesic flow, e.g. hyperspheres. Our methods are the first scalable sampling methods on these manifolds, with the aid of stochastic gradients. Novel dynamics are conceived and 2nd-order integrators are developed. By adopting embedding techniques and the geodesic integrator, the methods do not require a global coordinate system of the manifold and do not involve inner iterations. Synthetic experiments show the validity of the method, and its application to the challenging inference for spherical topic models indicate practical usability and efficiency.
Variational Information Maximization for Feature Selection,Feature selection is one of the most fundamental problems in machine learning. An extensive body of work on information-theoretic feature selection exists which is based on maximizing mutual information between subsets of features and class labels. Practical methods are forced to rely on approximations due to the difficulty of estimating mutual information. We demonstrate that approximations made by existing methods are based on unrealistic assumptions. We formulate a more flexible and general class of assumptions based on variational distributions and use them to tractably generate lower bounds for mutual information. These bounds define a novel information-theoretic framework for feature selection, which we prove to be optimal under tree graphical models with proper choice of variational distributions. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed method strongly outperforms existing information-theoretic feature selection approaches.
A Minimax Approach to Supervised Learning,Given a task of predicting Y from X, a loss function L, and a set of probability distributions Gamma on (X,Y), what is the optimal decision rule minimizing the worst-case expected loss over Gamma? In this paper, we address this question by introducing a generalization of the maximum entropy principle. Applying this principle to sets of distributions with marginal on X constrained to be the empirical marginal, we provide a minimax interpretation of the maximum likelihood problem over generalized linear models, which connects the minimax problem for each loss function to a generalized linear model. While in some cases such as quadratic and logarithmic loss functions we revisit well-known linear and logistic regression models, our approach reveals novel models for other loss functions. In particular, for the 0-1 loss we derive a classification approach which we call the minimax SVM. The minimax SVM minimizes the worst-case expected 0-1 loss over the proposed Gamma by solving a tractable optimization problem. We perform several numerical experiments in all of which the minimax SVM outperforms the SVM.
Fast Distributed Submodular Cover: Public-Private Data Summarization,In this paper, we introduce the public-private framework of data summarization motivated by privacy concerns in personalized recommender systems and online social services. Such systems have usually access to massive data generated by a large pool of users. A major fraction of the data is public and is visible to (and can be used for) all users. However, each user can also contribute some private data that should not be shared with other users to ensure her privacy. The goal is to provide a succinct summary of massive dataset, ideally as small as possible, from which customized summaries can be built for each user, i.e. it can contain elements from the public data (for diversity) and users' private data (for personalization). To formalize the above challenge, we assume that the scoring function according to which a user evaluates the utility of her summary satisfies submodularity, a widely used notion in data summarization applications. Thus, we model the data summarization targeted to each user as an instance of a submodular cover problem. However, when the data is massive it is infeasible to use the centralized greedy algorithm to find a customized summary even for a single user. Moreover, for a large pool of users, it is too time consuming to find such summaries separately. Instead, we develop a fast distributed algorithm for submodular cover, FASTCOVER, that provides a succinct summary in one shot and for all users. We show that the solution provided by FASTCOVER is competitive with that of the centralized algorithm with the number of rounds that is exponentially smaller than state of the art results. Moreover, we have implemented FASTCOVER with Spark to demonstrate its practical performance on a number of concrete applications, including personalized location recommendation, personalized movie recommendation, and dominating set on tens of millions of data points and varying number of users.
Domain Separation Networks,The cost of large scale data collection and annotation often makes the application of machine learning algorithms to new tasks or datasets prohibitively expensive. One approach circumventing this cost is training models on synthetic data where annotations are provided automatically. Despite their appeal, such models often fail to generalize from synthetic to real images, necessitating domain adaptation algorithms to manipulate these models before they can be successfully applied. Existing approaches focus either on mapping representations from one domain to the other, or on learning to extract features that are invariant to the domain from which they were extracted. However, by focusing only on creating a mapping or shared representation between the two domains, they ignore the individual characteristics of each domain. We hypothesize that explicitly modeling what is unique to each domain can improve a model's ability to extract domain-invariant features. Inspired by work on private-shared component analysis, we explicitly learn to extract image representations that are partitioned into two subspaces: one component which is private to each domain and one which is shared across domains. Our model is trained to not only perform the task we care about in the source domain, but also to use the partitioned representation to reconstruct the images from both domains. Our novel architecture results in a model that outperforms the state-of-the-art on a range of unsupervised domain adaptation scenarios and additionally produces  visualizations of the private and shared representations enabling interpretation of the domain adaptation process.
Multimodal Residual Learning for Visual QA,Deep neural networks continue to advance the state-of-the-art of image recognition tasks with various methods. However, applications of these methods to multimodality remain limited. We present Multimodal Residual Networks (MRN) for the multimodal residual learning of visual question-answering, which extends the idea of the deep residual learning. Unlike the deep residual learning, MRN effectively learns the joint representation from visual and language information. The main idea is to use element-wise multiplication for the joint residual mappings exploiting the residual learning of the attentional models in recent studies. Various alternative models introduced by multimodality are explored based on our study. We achieve the state-of-the-art results on the Visual QA dataset for both Open-Ended and Multiple-Choice tasks. Moreover, we introduce a novel method to visualize the attention effect of the joint representations for each learning block using back-propagation algorithm, even though the visual features are collapsed without spatial information.
Optimizing affinity-based binary hashing using auxiliary coordinates,In supervised binary hashing, one wants to learn a function that maps a high-dimensional feature vector to a vector of binary codes, for application to fast image retrieval. This typically results in a difficult optimization problem, nonconvex and nonsmooth, because of the discrete variables involved. Much work has simply relaxed the problem during training, solving a continuous optimization, and truncating the codes a posteriori. This gives reasonable results but is quite suboptimal. Recent work has tried to optimize the objective directly over the binary codes and achieved better results, but the hash function was still learned a posteriori, which remains suboptimal. We propose a general framework for learning hash functions using affinity-based loss functions that uses auxiliary coordinates. This closes the loop and optimizes jointly over the hash functions and the binary codes so that they gradually match each other. The resulting algorithm can be seen as an iterated version of the procedure of optimizing first over the codes and then learning the hash function. Compared to this, our optimization is guaranteed to obtain better hash functions while being not much slower, as demonstrated experimentally in various supervised datasets. In addition, our framework facilitates the design of optimization algorithms for arbitrary types of loss and hash functions.
Coresets for Scalable Bayesian Logistic Regression,The use of Bayesian methods in large-scale data settings is attractive because of the rich hierarchical models, uncertainty quantification, and prior specification they provide. Standard Bayesian inference algorithms are computationally expensive, however, making their direct application to large datasets difficult or infeasible. Recent work on scaling Bayesian inference has focused on modifying the underlying algorithms to, for example, use only a random data subsample at each iteration. We leverage the insight that data is often redundant to instead obtain a weighted subset of the data (called a coreset) that is much smaller than the original dataset. We can then use this small coreset in any number of existing posterior inference algorithms without modification. In this paper, we develop an efficient coreset construction algorithm for Bayesian logistic regression models. We provide theoretical guarantees on the size and approximation quality of the coreset -- both for fixed, known datasets, and in expectation for a wide class of data generative models. Crucially, the proposed approach also permits efficient construction of the coreset in both streaming and parallel settings, with minimal additional effort. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on a number of synthetic and real-world datasets, and find that, in practice, the size of the coreset is independent of the original dataset size. Furthermore, constructing the coreset takes a negligible amount of time compared to that required to run MCMC on it.
The Parallel Knowledge Gradient Method for Batch Bayesian Optimization,In many applications of black-box optimization, one can evaluate multiple points simultaneously, e.g. when evaluating the performances of several different neural network architectures in a parallel computing environment.  In this paper, we develop a novel batch Bayesian optimization algorithm --- the parallel knowledge gradient method. By construction, this method provides the one-step Bayes optimal batch of points to sample. We provide an efficient strategy for computing this Bayes-optimal batch of points, and we demonstrate that the parallel knowledge gradient method finds global optima significantly faster than previous batch Bayesian optimization algorithms on both synthetic test functions and when tuning hyperparameters of practical machine learning algorithms, especially when function evaluations are noisy.
Learning Multiagent Communication with Backpropagation,Many tasks in AI require the collaboration of multiple agents. Typically, the communication protocol between agents is manually specified and not altered during training. In this paper we explore a simple neural model, called CommNet, that uses continuous communication for fully cooperative tasks. The model consists of multiple agents and the communication between them is learned alongside their policy. We apply this model to a diverse set of tasks, demonstrating the ability of the agents to learn to communicate amongst themselves, yielding improved performance over non-communicative agents and baselines. In some cases, it is possible to interpret the language devised by the agents, revealing simple but effective strategies for solving the task at hand.
Optimal Binary Classifier Aggregation for General Losses,We address the problem of aggregating an ensemble of predictors with known loss bounds in a semi-supervised binary classification setting, to minimize prediction loss incurred on the unlabeled data. We find the minimax optimal predictions for a very general class of loss functions including all convex and many non-convex losses, extending a recent analysis of the problem for misclassification error. The result is a family of semi-supervised ensemble aggregation algorithms which are as efficient as linear learning by convex optimization, but are minimax optimal without any relaxations. Their decision rules take a form familiar in decision theory -- applying sigmoid functions to a notion of ensemble margin -- without the assumptions typically made in margin-based learning.
The Generalized Reparameterization Gradient,The reparameterization gradient has become a widely used method to obtain Monte Carlo gradients to optimize the variational objective. However, this technique does not easily apply to commonly used distributions such as beta or gamma without further approximations, and most practical applications of the reparameterization gradient fit Gaussian distributions. In this paper, we introduce the generalized reparameterization gradient, a method that extends the reparameterization gradient to a wider class of variational distributions. Generalized reparameterizations use invertible transformations of the latent variables which lead to transformed distributions that weakly depend on the variational parameters. This results in new Monte Carlo gradients that combine reparameterization gradients and score function gradients. We demonstrate our approach on variational inference for two complex probabilistic models. The generalized reparameterization is effective: even a single sample from the variational distribution is enough to obtain a low-variance gradient.
Conditional Generative Moment-Matching Networks,Maximum mean discrepancy (MMD) has been successfully applied to learn deep generative models for characterizing a joint distribution of variables via kernel mean embedding. In this paper, we present conditional generative moment-matching networks (CGMMN), which learn a conditional distribution given some input variables based on a conditional maximum mean discrepancy (CMMD) criterion. The learning is performed by stochastic gradient descent with the gradient calculated by back-propagation. We evaluate CGMMN on a wide range of tasks, including predictive modeling, contextual generation, and Bayesian dark knowledge, which distills knowledge from a Bayesian model by learning a relatively small CGMMN student network. Our results demonstrate competitive performance in all the tasks.
A Credit Assignment Compiler for Joint Prediction,Many machine learning applications involve jointly predicting multiple mutually dependent output variables. Learning to search is a family of methods where the complex decision problem is cast into a sequence of decisions via a search space. Although these methods have shown promise both in theory and in practice, implementing them has been burdensomely awkward. In this paper, we show the search space can be defined by an arbitrary imperative program, turning learning to search into a credit assignment compiler. Altogether with the algorithmic improvements for the compiler, we radically reduce the complexity of programming and the running time. We demonstrate the feasibility of our approach on multiple joint prediction tasks. In all cases, we obtain accuracies as high as alternative approaches, at drastically reduced execution and programming time.
Short-Dot: Computing Large Linear Transforms Distributedly Using Coded Short Dot Products,Faced with saturation of Moore's law and increasing size and dimension of data, system designers have increasingly resorted to parallel and distributed computing to reduce computation time of machine-learning algorithms. However, distributed computing is often bottle necked by a small fraction of slow processors called "stragglers" that reduce the speed of computation because the fusion node has to wait for all processors to complete their processing. To combat the effect of stragglers, recent literature proposes introducing redundancy in computations across processors, e.g., using repetition-based strategies or erasure codes. The fusion node can exploit this redundancy by completing the computation using outputs from only a subset of the processors, ignoring the stragglers. In this paper, we propose a novel technique - that we call "Short-Dot" - to introduce redundant computations in a coding theory inspired fashion, for computing linear transforms of long vectors. Instead of computing long dot products as required in the original linear transform, we construct a larger number of redundant and short dot products that can be computed more efficiently at individual processors. Further, only a subset of these short dot products are required at the fusion node to finish the computation successfully. We demonstrate through probabilistic analysis as well as experiments on computing clusters that Short-Dot offers significant speed-up compared to existing techniques. We also derive trade-offs between the length of the dot-products and the resilience to stragglers (number of processors required to finish), for any such strategy and compare it to that achieved by our strategy.
Spatio-Temporal Hilbert Maps for Continuous Occupancy Representation in Dynamic Environments,We consider the problem of building continuous occupancy representations in  dynamic environments for robotics applications. The problem has hardly been discussed previously due to the complexity of patterns in urban environments,  which have both spatial and temporal dependencies. We address the problem  as learning a kernel classifier on an efficient feature space. The key novelty of  our approach is the incorporation of variations in the time domain into the spatial  domain. We propose a method to propagate motion uncertainty into the kernel using a hierarchical model. The main benefit of this approach is that it can directly predict  the occupancy state of the map in the future from past observations, being a valuable  tool for robot trajectory planning under uncertainty. Our approach preserves the  main computational benefits of static Hilbert maps  using stochastic gradient  descent for fast optimization of model parameters and incremental updates as  new data are captured. Experiments conducted in road intersections of an urban  environment demonstrated that spatio-temporal Hilbert maps can accurately model  changes in the map while outperforming other techniques on various aspects.
Learning HMMs with Nonparametric Emissions via Spectral Decompositions of Continuous Matrices,Recently, there has been a surge of interest in using spectral methods for estimating latent variable models. However, it is usually assumed that the distribution of the observations conditioned on the latent variables is either discrete or belongs to a parametric family. In this paper, we study the estimation of an $m$-state hidden Markov model (HMM) with only smoothness assumptions, such as H\"olderian conditions, on the emission densities. By leveraging some recent advances in continuous linear algebra and numerical analysis, we develop a computationally efficient spectral algorithm for learning nonparametric HMMs. Our technique is based on computing an SVD on nonparametric estimates of density functions by viewing them as \emph{continuous matrices}. We derive sample complexity bounds via concentration results for nonparametric density estimation and novel perturbation theory results for continuous matrices. We implement our method using Chebyshev polynomial approximations. Our method is competitive with other baselines on synthetic and real problems and is also very computationally efficient.
Integrated perception with recurrent multi-task neural networks,Modern discriminative predictors have been shown to match natural intelligences in specific perceptual tasks in image classification, object and part detection, boundary extraction, etc. However, a major advantage that natural intelligences still have is that they work well for all perceptual problems together, solving them efficiently and coherently in an integrated manner. In order to capture some of these advantages in machine perception, we ask two questions: whether deep neural networks can learn universal image representations, useful not only for a single task but for all of them, and how the solutions to the different tasks can be integrated in this framework. We answer by proposing a new architecture, which we call multinet, in which not only deep image features are shared between tasks, but where tasks can interact in a recurrent manner by encoding the results of their analysis in a common shared representation of the data. In this manner, we show that the performance of individual tasks in standard benchmarks can be improved first by sharing features between them and then, more significantly, by integrating their solutions in the common representation.
Blind Attacks on Machine Learners,The importance of studying the robustness of learners to malicious data is well established. While much work has been done establishing both robust estimators and effective data injection attacks when the attacker is omniscient, the ability of an attacker to provably harm learning while having access to little information is largely unstudied. We study the potential of a blind attacker to provably limit a learners performance by data injection attack without observing the learners training set or any parameter of the distribution from which it is drawn. We provide examples of simple yet effective attacks in two settings: firstly, where an informed learner knows the strategy chosen by the attacker, and secondly, where a blind learner knows only the proportion of malicious data and some family to which the malicious distribution chosen by the attacker belongs. For each attack, we analyze minimax rates of convergence and establish lower bounds on the learners minimax risk, exhibiting limits on a learners ability to learn under data injection attack even when the attacker is blind.
Optimistic Gittins Indices,Starting with the Thomspon sampling algorithm, recent years have seen a resurgence of interest in Bayesian algorithms for the Multi-armed Bandit (MAB) problem. These algorithms seek to exploit prior information on arm biases and while several have been shown to be regret optimal, their design has not emerged from a principled approach. In contrast, if one cared about Bayesian regret discounted over an infinite horizon at a fixed, pre-specified rate, the celebrated Gittins index theorem offers an optimal algorithm. Unfortunately, the Gittins analysis does not appear to carry over to minimizing Bayesian regret over all sufficiently large horizons and computing a Gittins index is onerous relative to essentially any incumbent index scheme for the Bayesian MAB problem.   The present paper proposes a sequence of 'optimistic' approximations to the Gittins index. We show that the use of these approximations in concert with the use of an increasing discount factor appears to offer a compelling alternative to a variety of index schemes proposed for the Bayesian MAB problem in recent years. In addition, we show that the simplest of these approximations yields regret that matches the Lai-Robbins lower bound, including achieving matching constants.
Sub-sampled Newton Methods with Non-uniform Sampling,We consider the problem of finding the minimizer of a convex function $F: \mathbb R^d \rightarrow \mathbb R$ of the form $F(w) \defeq \sum_{i=1}^n f_i(w) + R(w)$ where a low-rank factorization of $\nabla^2 f_i(w)$ is readily available.We consider the regime where $n \gg d$. We propose randomized Newton-type algorithms that exploit \textit{non-uniform} sub-sampling of $\{\nabla^2 f_i(w)\}_{i=1}^{n}$, as well as inexact updates, as means to reduce the computational complexity, and are applicable to a wide range of problems in machine learning. Two non-uniform sampling distributions based on {\it block norm squares} and {\it block partial leverage scores} are considered. Under certain assumptions, we show that our algorithms inherit a linear-quadratic convergence rate in $w$ and achieve a lower computational complexity compared to similar existing methods.  In addition, we show that our algorithms exhibit more robustness and better dependence on problem specific quantities, such as the condition number. We numerically demonstrate the advantages of our algorithms on several real datasets.
Learned Region Sparsity and Diversity Also Predicts Visual Attention,Learned region sparsity has achieved state-of-the-art performance in classification tasks by exploiting and integrating a sparse set of local information into global decisions. The underlying mechanism resembles how people sample information from an image with their eye movements when making similar decisions. In this paper we incorporate the biologically plausible mechanism of Inhibition of Return into the learned region sparsity model, thereby imposing diversity on the selected regions. We investigate how these mechanisms of sparsity and diversity relate to visual attention by testing our model on three different types of visual search tasks. We report state-of-the-art results in predicting the locations of human gaze fixations, even though our model is trained only on image-level labels without object location annotations. Notably, the classification performance of the extended model  remains the same as the original. This work suggests a new computational perspective on visual attention mechanisms and shows how the inclusion of attention-based mechanisms can improve computer vision techniques.
Adaptive Concentration Inequalities for Sequential Decision Problems,A key challenge in sequential decision problems is to determine how many samples are needed for an agent to make reliable decisions with good probabilistic guarantees.   We introduce Hoeffding-like concentration inequalities that hold for a random, adaptively chosen number of samples. Our inequalities are tight under natural assumptions and can greatly simplify the analysis of common sequential decision problems. In particular, we apply them to sequential hypothesis testing, best arm identification, and sorting. The resulting algorithms rival or exceed the state of the art both theoretically and empirically.
Cooperative Graphical Models,We study a rich family of distributions that capture variable interactions significantly more expressive than those representable with low-treewidth or pairwise graphical models, or log-supermodular models. We call these cooperative graphical models. Yet, this family retains structure, which we carefully exploit for efficient inference techniques. Our algorithms combine the polyhedral structure of submodular functions in new ways with variational inference methods to obtain both lower and upper bounds on the partition function. While our fully convex upper bound is minimized as an SDP or via tree-reweighted belief propagation, our lower bound is tightened via belief propagation or mean-field algorithms. The resulting algorithms are easy to implement and, as our experiments show, effectively obtain good bounds and marginals for synthetic and real-world examples.
Correlated-PCA: Principal Components' Analysis when Data and Noise are Correlated,Given a matrix of observed data, Principal Components Analysis (PCA) computes a small number of orthogonal directions that contain most of its variability. Provably accurate solutions for PCA have been in use for a long time. However, to the best of our knowledge, all existing theoretical guarantees for it assume that the data and the corrupting noise  are mutually independent, or at least uncorrelated. This is valid in practice often, but not always. In this paper, we study the PCA problem in the setting where the data and noise can be correlated. Such noise is often also referred to as ``data-dependent noise". We obtain a correctness result for the standard eigenvalue decomposition (EVD) based solution to PCA under simple assumptions on the data-noise correlation. We also develop and analyze a generalization of EVD, cluster-EVD, that improves upon EVD in certain regimes.
Hierarchical Object Representation for Open-Ended Object Category Learning and Recognition,Most robots lack the ability to learn new objects from past experiences. To migrate a robot to a new environment one must often completely re-generate the knowledge- base that it is running with. Since in open-ended domains the set of categories to be learned is not predefined, it is not feasible to assume that one can pre-program all object categories required by robots. Therefore, autonomous robots must have the ability to continuously execute learning and recognition in a concurrent and interleaved fashion. This paper proposes an open-ended 3D object recognition system which concurrently learns both the object categories and the statistical features for encoding objects. In particular, we propose an extension of Latent Dirichlet Allocation to learn structural semantic features (i.e. topics) from low-level feature co-occurrences for each category independently. Moreover, topics in each category are discovered in an unsupervised fashion and are updated incrementally using new object views. The approach contains similarities with the organization of the visual cortex and builds a hierarchy of increasingly sophisticated representations. Results show the fulfilling performance of this approach on different types of objects. Moreover, this system demonstrates the capability of learning from few training examples and competes with state-of-the-art systems.
Optimal Tagging with Markov Chain Optimization,Many information systems use tags and keywords to describe and annotate content. These allow for efficient organization and categorization of items, as well as facilitate relevant search queries. As such, the selected set of tags for an item can have a considerable effect on the volume of traffic that eventually reaches an item.  In tagging systems where tags are exclusively chosen by an item's owner, who in turn is interested in maximizing traffic, a principled approach for assigning tags can prove valuable. In this paper we introduce the problem of optimal tagging, where the task is to choose a subset of tags for a new item such that the probability of browsing users reaching that item is maximized.  We formulate the problem by modeling traffic using a Markov chain, and asking how transitions in this chain should be modified to maximize traffic into a certain state of interest. The resulting optimization problem involves maximizing a certain function over subsets, under a cardinality constraint.  We show that the optimization problem is NP-hard, but has a (1-1/e)-approximation via a simple greedy algorithm due to monotonicity and submodularity. Furthermore, the structure of the problem allows for an efficient computation of the greedy step. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, we perform experiments on three tagging datasets, and show that the greedy algorithm outperforms other baselines.
Bayesian optimization for automated model selection,Despite the success of kernel-based nonparametric methods, kernel selection still requires considerable expertise, and is often described as a black art. We present a sophisticated method for automatically searching for an appropriate kernel from an infinite space of potential choices. Previous efforts in this direction have focused on traversing a kernel grammar, only examining the data via computation of marginal likelihood. Our proposed search method is based on Bayesian optimization in model space, where we reason about model evidence as a function to be maximized. We explicitly reason about the data distribution and how it induces similarity between potential model choices in terms of the explanations they can offer for observed data. In this light, we construct a novel kernel between models to explain a given dataset. Our method is capable of finding a model that explains a given dataset well without any human assistance, often with fewer computations of model evidence than previous approaches, a claim we demonstrate empirically.
Multi-view Anomaly Detection via Robust Probabilistic Latent Variable Models,We propose probabilistic latent variable models for multi-view anomaly detection, which is the task of finding instances that have inconsistent views given multi-view data. With the proposed model, all views of a non-anomalous instance are assumed to be generated from a single latent vector. On the other hand, an anomalous instance is assumed to have multiple latent vectors, and its different views are generated from different latent vectors. By inferring the number of latent vectors used for each instance with Dirichlet process priors, we obtain multi-view anomaly scores. The proposed model can be seen as a robust extension of probabilistic canonical correlation analysis for noisy multi-view data. We present Bayesian inference procedures for the proposed model based on a stochastic EM algorithm. The effectiveness of the proposed model is demonstrated in terms of performance when detecting multi-view anomalies.
Inference by Reparameterization in Neural Population Codes,Behavioral experiments on humans and animals suggest that the brain performs probabilistic inference to interpret its environment. Here we present a new general-purpose, biologically-plausible neural implementation of approximate inference. The neural network represents uncertainty using Probabilistic Population Codes (PPCs), which are distributed neural representations that naturally encode probability distributions, and support marginalization and evidence integration in a biologically-plausible manner. By connecting multiple PPCs together as a probabilistic graphical model, we represent multivariate probability distributions. Approximate inference in graphical models can be accomplished by message-passing algorithms that disseminate local information throughout the graph. An attractive and often accurate example of such an algorithm is Loopy Belief Propagation (LBP), which uses local marginalization and evidence integration operations to perform approximate inference efficiently even for complex models. Unfortunately, a subtle feature of LBP renders it neurally implausible. However, LBP can be elegantly reformulated as a sequence of Tree-based Reparameterizations (TRP) of the graphical model. We re-express the TRP updates as a nonlinear dynamical system with both fast and slow timescales, and show that this produces a neurally plausible solution. By combining all of these ideas, we show that a network of PPCs can represent multivariate probability distributions and implement the TRP updates to perform probabilistic inference. Simulations with Gaussian graphical models demonstrate that the neural network inference quality is comparable to the direct evaluation of LBP and robust to noise, and thus provides a promising mechanism for general probabilistic inference in the population codes of the brain.
Efficient Neural Codes under Metabolic Constraints,Neural codes are inevitably shaped by various kinds of biological constraints, \emph{e.g.} noise and metabolic cost. Here we formulate a coding framework which explicitly deals with noise and the metabolic costs associated with the neural representation of information, and analytically derive the optimal neural code for monotonic response functions and arbitrary stimulus distributions. For a single neuron, the theory predicts a family of optimal response functions depending on the metabolic budget and noise characteristics. Interestingly, the well-known histogram equalization solution can be viewed as a special case when metabolic resources are unlimited. For a pair of neurons, our theory suggests that under more severe metabolic constraints, ON-OFF coding is an increasingly more efficient coding scheme compared to ON-ON or OFF-OFF. The advantage could be as large as one-fold, substantially larger than the previous estimation. Some of these predictions could be generalized to the case of large neural populations. In particular, these analytical results may provide a theoretical basis for the predominant segregation into ON- and OFF-cells in early visual processing areas. Overall, we provide a unified framework for optimal neural codes with monotonic tuning curves in the brain, and makes predictions that can be directly tested with physiology experiments.
Learning Deep Parsimonious Representations,In this paper we aim at facilitating generalization for deep networks while supporting interpretability of the learned representations. Towards this goal, we propose a clustering based regularization that encourages parsimonious representations. Our k-means style objective is easy to optimize and flexible  supporting various forms of clustering, including sample and spatial clustering as well as co-clustering. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on the tasks of unsupervised learning, classification, fine grained categorization and zero-shot learning.
An equivalence between high dimensional Bayes optimal inference and M-estimation,Due to the computational difficulty of performing MMSE (minimum mean squared error) inference, maximum a posteriori (MAP) is often used as a surrogate. However, the accuracy of MAP is suboptimal for high dimensional inference, where the number of model parameters is of the same order as the number of samples. In this work we demonstrate how MMSE performance is asymptotically achievable via optimization with an appropriately selected convex penalty and regularization function which are a smoothed version of the widely applied MAP algorithm. Our findings provide a new derivation and interpretation for recent optimal M-estimators discovered by El Karoui, et. al. PNAS 2013 as well as extending to non-additive noise models. We demonstrate the performance of these optimal M-estimators with numerical simulations.  Overall, at the heart of our work is the revelation of a remarkable equivalence between two seemingly very different computational problems: namely that of high dimensional Bayesian integration, and high dimensional convex optimization.  In essence we show that the former computationally difficult integral may be computed by solving the latter, simpler optimization problem.
Minimizing Quadratic Functions in Constant Time,A sampling-based optimization method for quadratic functions is   proposed. Our method approximately solves the following   $n$-dimensional quadratic minimization problem in constant time,   which is independent of $n$:   $z^*=\min_{\bv \in \bbR^n}\bracket{\bv}{A \bv} +   n\bracket{\bv}{\diag(\bd)\bv} + n\bracket{\bb}{\bv}$,   where $A \in \bbR^{n \times n}$ is a matrix and $\bd,\bb \in \bbR^n$   are vectors. Our theoretical analysis specifies the number of   samples $k(\delta, \epsilon)$ such that the approximated solution   $z$ satisfies $|z - z^*| = O(\epsilon n^2)$ with probability   $1-\delta$. The empirical performance (accuracy and runtime) is   positively confirmed by numerical experiments.
Learning Structured Sparsity in Deep Neural Networks,High demand for computation resources severely hinders deployment of large-scale Deep Neural Networks (DNN) in resource constrained devices. In this work, we propose a Structured Sparsity Learning (SSL) method to regularize the structures (i.e., filters, channels, filter shapes, and layer depth) of DNNs. SSL can: (1) learn a compact structure from a bigger DNN to reduce computation cost; (2) obtain a hardware-friendly structured sparsity of DNN to efficiently accelerate the DNNs evaluation. Experimental results show that SSL achieves on average 5.1X and 3.1X speedups of convolutional layer computation of AlexNet against CPU and GPU, respectively, with off-the-shelf libraries. These speedups are about twice speedups of non-structured sparsity; (3) regularize the DNN structure to improve classification accuracy. The results show that for CIFAR-10, regularization on layer depth reduces a 20-layer Deep Residual Network (ResNet) to 18 layers while improves the accuracy from 91.25% to 92.60%, which is still higher than that of original ResNet with 32 layers. For AlexNet, SSL reduces the error by ~1%.
Adversarial Multiclass Classification: A Risk Minimization Perspective,Recently proposed adversarial classification methods have shown promising results for cost sensitive and multivariate losses. In contrast with empirical risk minimization (ERM) methods, which use convex surrogate losses to approximate the desired non-convex target loss function, adversarial methods minimize non-convex losses by treating the properties of the training data as being uncertain and worst case within a minimax game. Despite this difference in formulation, we recast adversarial classification under zero-one loss as an ERM method with a novel prescribed loss function. We demonstrate a number of theoretical and practical advantages over the very closely related hinge loss ERM methods. This establishes adversarial classification under the zero-one loss as a method that fills the long standing gap in multiclass hinge loss classification, simultaneously guaranteeing Fisher consistency and universal consistency, while also providing dual parameter sparsity and high accuracy predictions in practice.
Unified Methods for Exploiting Piecewise Linear Structure in Convex Optimization,We develop methods for rapidly identifying important components of a convex optimization problem for the purpose of achieving fast convergence times. By considering a novel problem formulationthe minimization of a sum of piecewise functionswe describe a principled and general mechanism for exploiting piecewise linear structure in convex optimization. This result leads to a theoretically justified working set algorithm and a novel screening test, which generalize and improve upon many prior results on exploiting structure in convex optimization. In empirical comparisons, we study the scalability of our methods. We find that screening scales surprisingly poorly with the size of the problem, while our working set algorithm convincingly outperforms alternative approaches.
Testing for Differences in Gaussian Graphical Models:  Applications to Brain Connectivity,Functional brain networks are well described and estimated from data with Gaussian Graphical Models (GGMs), e.g.\ using sparse inverse covariance estimators. Comparing functional connectivity of subjects in two populations calls for comparing these estimated GGMs. Our goal is to identify differences in GGMs known to have similar structure. We characterize the uncertainty of differences with confidence intervals obtained using a parametric distribution on parameters of a sparse estimator. Sparse penalties enable statistical guarantees and interpretable models even in high-dimensional and low-sample settings. Characterizing the distributions of sparse models is inherently challenging as the penalties produce a biased estimator. Recent work invokes the sparsity assumptions to effectively remove the bias from a sparse estimator such as the lasso.  These distributions can be used to give confidence intervals on edges in GGMs, and by extension their differences. However, in the case of comparing GGMs, these estimators do not make use of any assumed joint structure among the GGMs. Inspired by priors from brain functional connectivity we derive the distribution of parameter differences under a joint penalty when parameters are known to be sparse in the difference. This leads us to introduce the debiased multi-task fused lasso, whose distribution can be characterized in an efficient manner. We then show how the debiased lasso and multi-task fused lasso can be used to obtain confidence intervals on edge differences in GGMs. We validate the techniques proposed on a set of synthetic examples as well as neuro-imaging dataset created for the study of autism.  
Synthesis of MCMC and Belief Propagation,Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) and Belief Propagation (BP) are the most popular algorithms for computational inference in Graphical Models (GM).  In principle, MCMC is an exact probabilistic method which, however, often suffers from exponentially slow mixing. In contrast, BP  is a deterministic method, which is typically fast,  empirically very successful, however in general lacking control of accuracy over loopy graphs.  In this paper, we introduce MCMC algorithms correcting the approximation error of BP, i.e.,  we provide a way to compensate for BP errors via a consecutive BP-aware MCMC.  Our framework is based on the Loop Calculus (LC) approach  which allows to express the BP error  as a sum of weighted generalized loops. Although the full series is computationally intractable,  it is known that a truncated series, summing up all 2-regular loops, is computable in polynomial-time for planar pair-wise binary GMs and it also provides a highly accurate approximation empirically. Motivated by this, we, first, propose a polynomial-time approximation MCMC scheme for the truncated series of general (non-planar) pair-wise binary models.  Our main idea here is to use the Worm algorithm, known to provide fast mixing in other (related) problems, and then  design an appropriate rejection scheme to sample 2-regular loops. Furthermore, we also design an efficient rejection-free MCMC scheme  for approximating the full series.  The main novelty underlying our design  is in utilizing the concept of cycle basis, which provides an efficient decomposition of the generalized loops. In essence, the proposed MCMC schemes run on transformed GM built upon  the non-trivial BP solution, and our experiments show that this synthesis of BP and MCMC  outperforms both direct MCMC and bare BP schemes.  
Value Iteration Networks,We introduce the value iteration network (VIN): a fully differentiable neural network with a `planning module' embedded within. VINs can learn to plan, and are suitable for predicting outcomes that involve planning-based reasoning, such as policies for reinforcement learning. Key to our approach is a novel differentiable approximation of the value-iteration algorithm, which can be represented as a convolutional neural network, and trained end-to-end using standard backpropagation. We evaluate VIN based policies on discrete and continuous path-planning domains, and on a natural-language based search task. We show that by learning an explicit planning computation, VIN policies generalize better to new, unseen domains.
Sequential Neural Models with Stochastic Layers,How can we efficiently propagate uncertainty in a latent state representation with recurrent neural networks?  This paper introduces stochastic recurrent neural networks which glue a deterministic recurrent neural network and a state space model together to form a stochastic and sequential neural generative model. The clear separation of deterministic and stochastic layers allows a structured variational inference network to track the factorization of the models posterior distribution. By retaining both the nonlinear recursive structure of a recurrent neural network and averaging over the uncertainty in a latent path, like a state space model, we improve the state of the art results on the Blizzard and TIMIT speech modeling data sets by a large margin, while achieving comparable performances to competing methods on polyphonic music modeling.
Graphons, mergeons, and so on!,In this work we develop a theory of hierarchical clustering for graphs. Our modelling assumption is that graphs are sampled from a graphon, which is a powerful and general model for generating graphs and analyzing large networks.  Graphons are a  far richer class of graph models than stochastic blockmodels, the primary setting for recent progress in the statistical theory of graph clustering. We define what it means for an algorithm to produce the ``correct" clustering, give sufficient conditions in which a method is statistically consistent, and provide an explicit algorithm satisfying these properties.
Deep Learning for Predicting Human Strategic Behavior,Predicting the behavior of human participants in strategic settings is an important problem in many domains. Most existing work either assumes that participants are perfectly rational, or attempts to directly model each participant's cognitive processes based on insights from cognitive psychology and experimental economics. In this work, we present an alternative, a deep learning approach that automatically performs cognitive modeling without relying on such expert knowledge.  We introduce a novel architecture that allows a single network to generalize across different input and output dimensions by using matrix units rather than scalar units, and show that its performance significantly outperforms that of the previous state of the art, which relies on expert-constructed features.
Global Analysis of Expectation Maximization for Mixtures of Two Gaussians,Expectation Maximization (EM) is among the most popular algorithms for estimating parameters of statistical models.  However, EM, which is an iterative algorithm based on the maximum likelihood principle, is generally only guaranteed to find stationary points of the likelihood objective, and these points may be far from any maximizer.  This article addresses this disconnect between the statistical principles behind EM and its algorithmic properties.  Specifically, it provides a global analysis of EM for specific models in which the observations comprise an i.i.d. sample from a mixture of two Gaussians.  This is achieved by (i) studying the sequence of parameters from idealized execution of EM in the infinite sample limit, and fully characterizing the limit points of the sequence in terms of the initial parameters; and then (ii) based on this convergence analysis, establishing statistical consistency (or lack thereof) for the actual sequence of parameters produced by EM.
Supervised learning through the lens of compression,This work continues the study of the relationship between sample compression schemes and statistical learning, which has been mostly investigated within the framework of binary classification. We first extend the investigation to multiclass categorization: we prove that in this case learnability is equivalent to compression of logarithmic sample size and that the uniform convergence property implies compression of constant size. We use the compressibility-learnability equivalence to show that (i) for multiclass categorization, PAC and agnostic PAC learnability are equivalent, and (ii) to derive a compactness theorem for learnability. We then consider supervised learning under general loss functions: we show that in this case, in order to maintain the compressibility-learnability equivalence, it is necessary to consider an approximate variant of compression. We use it to show that PAC and agnostic PAC are not equivalent, even when the loss function has only three values.
Matrix Completion has No Spurious Local Minimum,Matrix completion is a basic machine learning problem that has wide applications, especially in collaborative filtering and recommender systems. Simple non-convex optimization algorithms are popular and effective in practice. Despite recent progress in proving various non-convex algorithms converge from a good initial point, it remains unclear why random or arbitrary initialization suffices in practice. We prove that the commonly used non-convex objective function for matrix completion has no spurious local minima --- all local minima must also be global. Therefore, many popular optimization algorithms such as (stochastic) gradient descent can provably solve matrix completion with \textit{arbitrary} initialization in polynomial time.
Clustering with Same-Cluster Queries,We propose a framework for Semi-Supervised Active Clustering framework (SSAC), where the learner is allowed to interact with a domain expert, asking whether two given instances belong to the same cluster or not. We study the query and computational complexity of clustering in this framework. We consider a setting where the expert conforms to a center-based clustering with a notion of margin.  We show that there is a trade off between computational complexity and query complexity; We prove that for the case of $k$-means clustering (i.e., when the expert conforms to a solution of $k$-means), having access to relatively few such queries allows efficient solutions to otherwise NP hard problems.  In particular, we provide a probabilistic polynomial-time (BPP) algorithm  for clustering in this setting that asks $O\big(k^2\log k + k\log n)$ same-cluster queries and runs with time complexity $O\big(kn\log n)$ (where $k$ is the number of clusters and $n$ is the number of instances). The success of the algorithm is guaranteed for data satisfying the margin condition under which, without queries, we show that the problem is NP hard. We also prove a lower bound on the number of queries needed to have a computationally efficient clustering algorithm in this setting.  
MetaGrad: Multiple Learning Rates in Online Learning,In online convex optimization it is well known that certain subclasses of objective functions are much easier than arbitrary convex functions. We are interested in designing adaptive methods that can automatically get fast rates in as many such subclasses as possible, without any manual tuning. Previous adaptive methods are able to interpolate between strongly convex and general convex functions. We present a new method, MetaGrad, that adapts to a much broader class of functions, including exp-concave and strongly convex functions, but also various types of stochastic and non-stochastic functions without any curvature. For instance, MetaGrad can achieve logarithmic regret on the unregularized hinge loss, even though it has no curvature, if the data come from a favourable probability distribution. MetaGrad's main feature is that it simultaneously considers multiple learning rates. Unlike all previous methods with provable regret guarantees, however, its learning rates are not monotonically decreasing over time and are not tuned based on a theoretically derived bound on the regret. Instead, they are weighted directly proportional to their empirical performance on the data using a tilted exponential weights master algorithm.  
Unsupervised Feature Extraction by Time-Contrastive Learning and Nonlinear ICA,Nonlinear independent component analysis (ICA) provides an appealing framework for unsupervised feature learning, but the models proposed so far are not identifiable. Here, we first propose a new intuitive principle of unsupervised deep learning from time series which uses the nonstationary structure of the data. Our learning principle, time-contrastive learning (TCL),  finds a representation which allows optimal discrimination of time segments (windows). Surprisingly, we show how TCL can be related to a nonlinear ICA model, when ICA is redefined to include temporal nonstationarities. In particular, we show that TCL combined with linear ICA estimates the nonlinear ICA model up to point-wise transformations of the sources, and this solution is unique --- thus providing the first identifiability result for nonlinear ICA which is rigorous, constructive, as well as very general.
Phased LSTM: Accelerating Recurrent Network Training for Long or Event-based Sequences,Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) have become the state-of-the-art choice for extracting patterns from temporal sequences. Current RNN models are ill suited to process irregularly sampled data triggered by events generated in continuous time by sensors or other neurons. Such data can occur, for example, when the input comes from novel event-driven artificial sensors which generate sparse, asynchronous streams of events or from multiple conventional sensors with different update intervals. In this work, we introduce the Phased LSTM model, which extends the LSTM unit by adding a new time gate. This gate is controlled by a parametrized oscillation with a frequency range which require updates of the memory cell only during a small percentage of the cycle. Even with the sparse updates imposed by the oscillation, the Phased LSTM network achieves faster convergence than regular LSTMs on tasks which require learning of long sequences.   The model naturally integrates inputs from sensors of arbitrary sampling rates, thereby opening new areas of investigation for processing asynchronous sensory events that carry timing information.  It also greatly improves the performance of LSTMs in standard RNN applications, and does so with an order-of-magnitude fewer computes.  
Tractable Operations for Arithmetic Circuits of Probabilistic Models,We consider tractable representations of probability distributions and the polytime operations they support.  In particular, we consider a recently proposed arithmetic circuit representation, the Probabilistic Sentential Decision Diagram (PSDD).  We show that PSDD supports a polytime multiplication operator, while they do not support a polytime operator for summing-out variables.  A polytime multiplication operator make PSDDs suitable for a broader class of applications compared to arithmetic circuits, which do not in general support multiplication.  As one example, we show that PSDD multiplication leads to a very simple but effective compilation algorithm for probabilistic graphical models: represent each model factor as a PSDD, and then multiply them.
Using Fast Weights to Attend to the Recent Past,Until recently, research on artificial neural networks was largely restricted to systems with only two types of variable: Neural activities that represent the current or recent input and weights that learn to capture regularities among inputs, outputs and payoffs. There is no good reason for this restriction. Synapses have dynamics at many different time-scales and this suggests that artificial neural networks might benefit from variables that change slower than activities but much faster than the standard weights.  These ``fast weights'' can be used to store temporary memories of the recent past and they provide a neurally plausible way of implementing the type of attention to the past that has recently proven helpful in sequence-to-sequence models. By using fast weights we can avoid the need to store copies of neural activity patterns.  
Bayesian Intermittent Demand Forecasting for Large Inventories,We present a scalable and robust Bayesian method for demand forecasting in the context of a large e-commerce platform, paying special attention to intermittent and bursty target statistics. Inference is approximated by the Newton-Raphson algorithm, reduced to linear-time Kalman smoothing, which allows us to operate on several orders of magnitude larger problems than previous related work. In a study on large real-world sales datasets, our method outperforms competing approaches on fast and medium moving items. 
Blazing the trails before beating the path: Sample-efficient Monte-Carlo planning,We study the sampling-based planning problem in Markov decision processes (MDPs) that we can access only through a generative model, usually referred to as Monte-Carlo planning. Our objective is to return a good estimate of the optimal value function at any state while minimizing the number of calls to the generative model, i.e. the sample complexity. We propose a new algorithm, TrailBlazer, able to handle MDPs with a finite or an infinite number of transitions from state-action to next states. TrailBlazer is an adaptive algorithm that exploits possible structures of the MDP by exploring only a subset of states reachable by following near-optimal policies. We provide bounds on its sample complexity that depend on a measure of the quantity of near-optimal states. The algorithm behavior can be considered as an extension of Monte-Carlo sampling (for estimating an expectation) to problems that alternate maximization (over actions) and expectation (over next states). Finally, another appealing feature of TrailBlazer is that it is simple to implement and computationally efficient.
SDP Relaxation with Randomized Rounding for Energy Disaggregation,We develop a scalable, computationally efficient method for the task of energy disaggregation for home appliance monitoring. In this problem the goal is to estimate the energy consumption of each appliance based on the total energy-consumption signal of a household. The current state of the art models the problem as inference in factorial HMMs, and finds an approximate solution to the resulting quadratic integer program via quadratic programming. Here we take a more principled approach, better suited to integer programming problems, and find an approximate optimum by combining convex semidefinite relaxations with randomized rounding, as well as with a scalable ADMM method that exploits the special structure of the resulting semidefinite program. Simulation results demonstrate the superiority of our methods both in synthetic and real-world datasets. 
Fast Mixing Markov Chains for Strongly Rayleigh Measures, DPPs, and Constrained Sampling,We study probability measures induced by set functions with constraints. Such measures arise in a variety of real-world settings, where prior knowledge, resource limitations, or other pragmatic considerations impose constraints. We consider the task of rapidly sampling from such constrained measures, and develop fast Markov chain samplers for them. Our first main result is for MCMC sampling from Strongly Rayleigh (SR) measures, for which we present sharp polynomial bounds on the mixing time. As a corollary, this result yields a fast mixing sampler for Determinantal Point Processes (DPPs), yielding (to our knowledge) the first provably fast MCMC sampler for DPPs since their inception over four decades ago. Beyond SR measures, we develop MCMC samplers for probabilistic models with hard constraints and identify sufficient conditions under which their chains mix rapidly. We illustrate our claims by empirically verifying the dependence of mixing times on the key factors governing our theoretical bounds.
Unsupervised Learning of 3D Structure from Images,A key goal of computer vision is to recover the underlying 3D structure that gives rise to 2D observations of the world. If endowed with 3D understanding, agents can abstract away from the complexity of the rendering process to form stable, disentangled representations of scene elements. In this paper we learn strong deep generative models of 3D structures, and recover these structures from 2D images via probabilistic inference. We demonstrate high-quality samples and report log-likelihoods on several datasets, including ShapeNet, and establish the first benchmarks in the literature. We also show how these models and their inference networks can be trained jointly, end-to-end, and directly from 2D images without any use of ground-truth 3D labels. This demonstrates for the first time the feasibility of learning to infer 3D representations of the world in a purely unsupervised manner.
The Multiple Quantile Graphical Model,We introduce the Multiple Quantile Graphical Model (MQGM), which extends the neighborhood selection approach of Meinshausen and Buhlmann for learning sparse graphical models.  The latter is defined by the basic subproblem of modeling the conditional mean of one variable as a sparse function of all others.  Our approach models a set of conditional quantiles of one variable as a sparse function of all others, and hence offers a much richer, more expressive class of conditional distribution estimates.  We establish that, under suitable regularity conditions, the MQGM identifies the exact conditional independencies with probability tending to one as the problem size grows, even outside of the usual homoskedastic Gaussian data model. We develop an efficient algorithm for fitting the MQGM using the alternating direction method of multipliers.  We also describe a strategy for sampling from the joint distribution that underlies the MQGM estimate. Lastly, we present detailed experiments that demonstrate the flexibility and effectiveness of the MQGM in modeling hetereoskedastic non-Gaussian data.
Unsupervised Learning from Noisy Networks with Applications to Hi-C Data,Complex networks play an important role in a plethora of disciplines in natural sciences. Cleaning up noisy observed networks, poses an important challenge in network analysis Existing methods utilize labeled data to alleviate the noise effect in the network.  However, labeled data is usually expensive to collect while unlabeled data can be gathered cheaply. In this paper, we propose an optimization framework to mine useful structures from noisy networks in an unsupervised manner. The key feature of our optimization framework is its ability to utilize local structures as well as global patterns in the network. We extend our method to incorporate multi-resolution networks in order to add further resistance to high-levels of noise. We also generalize our framework to utilize partial labels to enhance the performance. We specifically focus our method on multi-resolution Hi-C data by recovering clusters of genomic regions that co-localize in 3D space. Additionally, we use Capture-C-generated partial labels to further denoise the Hi-C network. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework in denoising the network and improving community detection results.
Towards Unifying Hamiltonian Monte Carlo and Slice Sampling,We unify slice sampling and Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) sampling, demonstrating their connection via the Hamiltonian-Jacobi equation from Hamiltonian mechanics. This insight enables extension of HMC and slice sampling to a broader family of samplers, called Monomial Gamma Samplers (MGS). We provide a theoretical analysis of the mixing performance of such samplers, proving that in the limit of a single parameter, the MGS draws decorrelated samples from the desired target distribution. We further show that as this parameter tends toward this limit, performance gains are achieved at a cost of increasing numerical difficulty and some practical convergence issues. Our theoretical results are validated with synthetic data and real-world applications.
Differential Privacy without Sensitivity,The exponential mechanism is a general method to construct a randomized estimator that satisfies $(\varepsilon, 0)$-differential privacy. Recently, Wang et al. showed that the Gibbs posterior, which is a data-dependent probability distribution that contains the Bayesian posterior, is essentially equivalent to the exponential mechanism under certain boundedness conditions on the loss function. While the exponential mechanism provides a way to build an $(\varepsilon, 0)$-differential private algorithm, it requires boundedness of the loss function, which is quite stringent for some learning problems. In this paper, we focus on $(\varepsilon, \delta)$-differential privacy of Gibbs posteriors with convex and Lipschitz loss functions. Our result extends the classical exponential mechanism, allowing the loss functions to have an unbounded sensitivity.
Generalized Correspondence-LDA Models (GC-LDA) for Identifying Functional Regions in the Brain,This paper presents Generalized Correspondence-LDA (GC-LDA), a generalization of the Correspondence-LDA model that allows for variable spatial representations to be associated with topics, and increased flexibility in terms of the strength of the correspondence between data types induced by the model. We present three variants of GC-LDA, each of which associates topics with a different spatial representation, and apply them to a corpus of neuroimaging data. In the context of this dataset, each topic corresponds to a functional brain region, where the region's spatial extent is captured by a probability distribution over neural activity, and the region's cognitive function is captured by a probability distribution over linguistic terms. We illustrate the qualitative improvements offered by GC-LDA in terms of the types of topics extracted with alternative spatial representations, as well as the model's ability to incorporate a-priori knowledge from the neuroimaging literature. We furthermore demonstrate that the novel features of GC-LDA improve predictions for missing data.
Kronecker Determinantal Point Processes,Determinantal Point Processes (DPPs) are probabilistic models over all subsets a ground set of N items. They have recently gained prominence in several applications that rely on diverse subsets. However, their applicability to large problems is still limited due to O(N^3) complexity of core tasks such as sampling and learning. We enable efficient sampling and learning for DPPs by introducing KronDPP, a DPP model whose kernel matrix decomposes as a tensor product of multiple smaller kernel matrices. This decomposition immediately enables fast exact sampling. But contrary to what one may expect, leveraging the Kronecker product structure for speeding up DPP learning turns out to be more difficult. We overcome this challenge, and derive batch and stochastic optimization algorithms for efficiently learning the parameters of a KronDPP.
Variance Reduction in Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics,Stochastic gradient-based Monte Carlo methods such as stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics are useful tools for posterior inference on large scale datasets in many machine learning applications. These methods scale to large datasets by using noisy gradients calculated using a mini-batch or subset of the dataset. However, the high variance inherent in these noisy gradients degrades performance and leads to slower mixing. In this paper, we present techniques for reducing variance in stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics, yielding novel  stochastic Monte Carlo methods that improve performance by reducing the variance in the stochastic gradient. We show that our proposed method has better theoretical guarantees on convergence rate than stochastic Langevin dynamics. This is complemented by impressive empirical results obtained on  a variety of real world datasets, and on four different machine learning tasks (regression, classification, independent component analysis and mixture modeling). These theoretical and empirical contributions combine to make a compelling case for using variance reduction in stochastic Monte Carlo methods.
Online Pricing with Strategic and Patient Buyers,We consider a seller with an unlimited supply of a single good, who is faced with a stream of $T$ buyers. Each buyer has a window of time in which she would like to purchase, and would buy at the lowest price in that window, provided that this price is lower than her private value (and otherwise, would not buy at all). In this setting, we give an algorithm that attains $O(T^{2/3})$ regret over any sequence of $T$ buyers with respect to the best fixed price in hindsight, and prove that no algorithm can perform better in the worst case.
Exploiting the Structure: Stochastic Gradient Methods Using Raw Clusters,The amount of data available in the world is growing faster than our ability to deal with it. However, if we take advantage of the internal structure, data may become much smaller for machine learning purposes. In this paper we focus on one of the fundamental machine learning tasks, empirical risk minimization (ERM), and provide faster algorithms with the help from the clustering structure of the data.  We introduce a simple notion of raw clustering that can be efficiently computed from the data, and propose two algorithms based on clustering information. Our accelerated algorithm ClusterACDM is built on a novel Haar transformation applied to the dual space of the ERM problem, and our variance-reduction based algorithm ClusterSVRG introduces a new gradient estimator using clustering. Our algorithms outperform their classical counterparts ACDM and SVRG respectively.
Clustering Signed Networks with the Geometric Mean of Laplacians,Signed networks allow to model positive and negative relationships. We analyze existing extensions of spectral clustering to signed networks. It turns out that existing approaches do not recover the ground truth clustering in several situations where either the positive or the negative network structures contain no noise. Our analysis shows that these problems arise as existing approaches take some form of arithmetic mean of the Laplacians of the positive and negative part. As a solution we propose to use the geometric mean of the Laplacians of positive and negative part and show that it outperforms the existing approaches. While the geometric mean of matrices is computationally expensive, we show that eigenvectors of the geometric mean can be computed efficiently, leading to a numerical scheme for sparse matrices which is of independent interest.
Robust Spectral Detection of Global Structures in the Data by Learning a Regularization,Spectral methods are popular in detecting global structures in the given data that can be represented as a matrix. However when the data matrix is sparse or noisy, classic spectral methods usually fail to work, due to localization of eigenvectors (or singular vectors) induced by the sparsity or noise. In this work, we propose a general method to solve the localization problem by learning a regularization matrix from the localized eigenvectors. Using matrix perturbation analysis, we demonstrate that the learned  regularizations suppress down the eigenvalues associated with localized  eigenvectors and enable us to recover the informative eigenvectors representing the global structure. We show applications of our method in several inference problems: community detection in networks, clustering from pairwise similarities, rank estimation and matrix completion problems. Using extensive experiments, we illustrate that our method solves the localization problem and works down to the  theoretical detectability limits in different kinds of synthetic data. This is in contrast with existing spectral algorithms based on data matrix, non-backtracking matrix, Laplacians and those with rank-one regularizations, which perform poorly in the sparse case with noise.
Perspective Transformer Nets: Learning Single-View 3D Object Reconstruction without 3D Supervision,Understanding the 3D world is a fundamental problem in computer vision. However, learning a good representation of 3D objects is still an open problem due to the high dimensionality of the data and many factors of variation involved. In this work, we investigate the task of single-view 3D object reconstruction from a learning agent's perspective. We formulate the learning process as an interaction between 3D and 2D representations and propose an encoder-decoder network with a novel projection loss defined by the projective transformation. More importantly, the projection loss enables the unsupervised learning using 2D observation without explicit 3D supervision. We demonstrate the ability of the model in generating 3D volume from a single 2D image with three sets of experiments: (1) learning from single-class objects; (2) learning from multi-class objects and (3) testing on novel object classes. Results show superior performance and better generalization ability for 3D object reconstruction when the projection loss is involved.
Launch and Iterate: Reducing Prediction Churn,Practical applications of machine learning often involve successive training iterations with changes to features and training examples. Ideally, changes in the output of any new model should only be improvements (wins) over the previous iteration, but in practice the predictions may change neutrally for many examples, resulting in extra net-zero wins and losses, referred to as unnecessary churn. These changes in the predictions are problematic for usability for some applications, and make it harder and more expensive to measure if a change is statistically significant positive. In this paper, we formulate the problem and present a stabilization operator to regularize a classifier towards a previous classifier. We use a Markov chain Monte Carlo stabilization operator to produce a model with more consistent predictions without adversely affecting accuracy. We investigate the properties of the proposal with theoretical analysis. Experiments on benchmark datasets for different classification algorithms demonstrate the method and the resulting reduction in churn.
Data Poisoning Attacks on Factorization-Based Collaborative Filtering,Recommendation and collaborative filtering systems are important in modern information and e-commerce applications.  As these systems are becoming increasingly popular in industry, their outputs could affect business decision making, introducing incentives for an adversarial party to compromise the availability or integrity of such systems. We introduce a data poisoning attack on collaborative filtering systems.  We demonstrate how a powerful attacker with full knowledge of the learner can generate malicious data so as to maximize his/her malicious objectives, while at the same time mimicking normal user behaviors to avoid being detected. While the complete knowledge assumption seems extreme, it enables a robust assessment of the vulnerability of collaborative filtering schemes to highly motivated attacks. We present efficient solutions for two popular factorization-based collaborative filtering algorithms: the alternative minimization formulation and the nuclear norm minimization method. Finally, we test the effectiveness of our proposed algorithms on real-world data and discuss potential defensive strategies.
Scaling Memory-Augmented Neural Networks with Sparse Reads and Writes,Neural networks augmented with external memory have the ability to learn algorithmic solutions to complex tasks. These models appear promising for applications such as language modeling and machine translation. However, they scale poorly in both space and time as the amount of memory grows --- limiting their applicability to real-world domains. Here, we present an end-to-end differentiable memory access scheme, which we call Sparse Access Memory (SAM), that retains the representational power of the original approaches whilst training efficiently with very large memories. We show that SAM achieves asymptotic lower bounds in space and time complexity, and find that an implementation runs $1,\!000\times$ faster and with $3,\!000\times$ less physical memory than non-sparse models. SAM learns with comparable data efficiency to existing models on a range of synthetic tasks and one-shot Omniglot character recognition, and can scale to tasks requiring $100,\!000$s of time steps and memories. As well, we show how our approach can be adapted for models that maintain temporal associations between memories, as with the recently introduced Differentiable Neural Computer.
Optimal Architectures in a Solvable Model of Deep Networks,Deep neural networks have received a considerable attention due to the success of their training for real world machine learning applications. They are also of great interest to the understanding of sensory processing in cortical sensory hierarchies. The purpose of this work is to advance our theoretical understanding of the computational benefits of these architectures. Using a simple model of clustered noisy inputs and a simple learning rule, we provide analytically derived recursion relations describing the propagation of the signals along the deep network. By analysis of these equations, and defining performance measures, we show that these model networks have optimal depths. We further explore the dependence of the optimal architecture on the system parameters.
Scalable Adaptive Stochastic Optimization Using Random Projections,Adaptive stochastic gradient methods such as AdaGrad have gained popularity in particular for training deep neural networks. The most commonly used and studied variant maintains a diagonal matrix approximation to second order information by accumulating past gradients which are used to tune the step size adaptively. In certain situations the full-matrix variant of AdaGrad is expected to attain better performance, however in high dimensions it is computationally impractical. We present Ada-LR and RadaGrad two computationally efficient approximations to full-matrix AdaGrad based on randomized dimensionality reduction. They are able to capture dependencies between features and achieve similar performance to full-matrix AdaGrad but at a much smaller computational cost. We show that the regret of Ada-LR is close to the regret of full-matrix AdaGrad which can have an up-to exponentially smaller dependence on the dimension than the diagonal variant. Empirically, we show that Ada-LR and RadaGrad perform similarly to full-matrix AdaGrad. On the task of training convolutional neural networks as well as recurrent neural networks, RadaGrad achieves faster convergence than diagonal AdaGrad.
Spectral Learning of Dynamic Systems from Nonequilibrium Data,Observable operator models (OOMs) and related models are one of the most important and powerful tools for modeling and analyzing stochastic systems. They exactly describe dynamics of finite-rank systems and can be efficiently and consistently estimated through spectral learning under the assumption of identically distributed data. In this paper, we investigate the properties of spectral learning without this assumption due to the requirements of analyzing large-time scale systems, and show that the equilibrium dynamics of a system can be extracted from nonequilibrium observation data by imposing an equilibrium constraint. In addition, we propose a binless extension of spectral learning for continuous data. In comparison with the other continuous-valued spectral algorithms, the binless algorithm can achieve consistent estimation of equilibrium dynamics with only linear complexity.
Local Minimax Complexity of Stochastic Convex Optimization,We extend the traditional worst-case, minimax analysis of stochastic convex optimization by introducing a localized form of minimax complexity for individual functions.  Our main result gives function-specific lower and upper bounds on the number of stochastic subgradient evaluations needed to optimize either the function or its ``hardest local alternative'' to a given numerical precision.  The bounds are expressed in terms of a localized and computational analogue of the modulus of continuity that is central to statistical minimax analysis. We show how the computational modulus of continuity can be explicitly calculated in concrete cases, and relates to the curvature of the function at the optimum.  We also prove a superefficiency result that demonstrates it is a meaningful benchmark, acting as a computational analogue of the Fisher information in statistical estimation. The nature and practical implications of the results are demonstrated in simulations.
A Theoretically Grounded Application of Dropout in Recurrent Neural Networks,Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) stand at the forefront of many recent developments in deep learning. Yet a major difficulty with these models is their tendency to overfit, with dropout shown to fail when applied to recurrent layers. Recent results at the intersection of Bayesian modelling and deep learning offer a Bayesian interpretation of common deep learning techniques such as dropout. This grounding of dropout in approximate Bayesian inference suggests an extension of the theoretical results, offering insights into the use of dropout with RNN models. We apply this new variational inference based dropout technique in LSTM and GRU models, assessing it on language modelling and sentiment analysis tasks. The new approach outperforms existing techniques, and to the best of our knowledge improves on the single model state-of-the-art in language modelling with the Penn Treebank (73.4 test perplexity). This extends our arsenal of variational tools in deep learning.
Brains on Beats,We developed task-optimized deep neural networks (DNNs) that achieved state-of-the-art performance in different evaluation scenarios for automatic music tagging. These DNNs were subsequently used to probe the neural representations of music. Representational similarity analysis revealed the existence of a representational gradient across the superior temporal gyrus (STG). Anterior STG was shown to be more sensitive to low-level stimulus features encoded in shallow DNN layers whereas posterior STG was shown to be more sensitive to high-level stimulus features encoded in deep DNN layers.
A Communication-Efficient Parallel Algorithm for Decision Tree,Decision tree (and its extensions such as Gradient Boosting Decision Trees and Random Forest) is a widely used machine learning algorithm, due to its practical effectiveness and model interpretability. With the emergence of big data, there is an increasing need to parallelize the training process of decision tree. However, most existing attempts along this line suffer from high communication costs. In this paper, we propose a new algorithm, called \emph{Parallel Voting Decision Tree (PV-Tree)}, to tackle this challenge. After partitioning the training data onto a number of (e.g., $M$) machines, this algorithm performs both local voting and global voting in each iteration. For local voting, the top-$k$ attributes are selected from each machine according to its local data. Then, the indices of these top attributes are aggregated by a server, and the globally top-$2k$ attributes are determined by a majority voting among these local candidates. Finally, the full-grained histograms of the globally top-$2k$ attributes are collected from local machines in order to identify the best (most informative) attribute and its split point. PV-Tree can achieve a very low communication cost (independent of the total number of attributes) and thus can scale out very well. Furthermore, theoretical analysis shows that this algorithm can learn a near optimal decision tree, since it can find the best attribute with a large probability. Our experiments on real-world datasets show that PV-Tree significantly outperforms the existing parallel decision tree algorithms in the tradeoff between accuracy and efficiency.
Leveraging Sparsity for Efficient Submodular Data Summarization,The facility location problem is widely used for summarizing large datasets and has additional applications in sensor placement, image retrieval, and clustering. One difficulty of this problem is that submodular optimization algorithms require the calculation of pairwise benefits for all items in the dataset. This is infeasible for large problems, so recent work proposed to only calculate nearest neighbor benefits. One limitation is that several strong assumptions were invoked to obtain provable approximation guarantees. In this paper we establish that these extra assumptions are not necessarysolving the sparsified problem will be almost optimal under the standard assumptions of the problem. We then analyze a different method of sparsification that is a better model for methods such as Locality Sensitive Hashing to accelerate the nearest neighbor computations and extend the use of the problem to a broader family of similarities. We validate our approach by demonstrating that it rapidly generates interpretable summaries.
Avoiding Imposters and Delinquents: Adversarial Crowdsourcing and Peer Prediction,We consider a crowdsourcing model in which n workers are asked to rate the quality of n items previously generated by other workers. An unknown set of $\alpha n$ workers generate reliable ratings, while the remaining workers may behave arbitrarily and possibly adversarially. The manager of the experiment can also manually evaluate the quality of a small number of items, and wishes to curate together almost all of the high-quality items with at most an fraction of low-quality items. Perhaps surprisingly, we show that this is possible with an amount of work required of the manager, and each worker, that does not scale with n: the dataset can be curated with $\tilde{O}(1/\beta\alpha\epsilon^4)$ ratings per worker, and $\tilde{O}(1/\beta\epsilon^2)$ ratings by the manager, where $\beta$ is the fraction of high-quality items. Our results extend to the more general setting of peer prediction, including peer grading in online classrooms.
Designing smoothing functions for improved worst-case competitive ratio in online optimization,Online optimization covers problems such as online resource allocation, online bipartite matching, adwords (a central problem in e-commerce and advertising), and adwords with separable concave returns.  We analyze the worst case competitive ratio of two primal-dual algorithms for a class of online convex (conic) optimization problems that contains the previous examples as special cases defined on the positive orthant.  We derive a sufficient condition on the objective function that guarantees a constant worst case competitive ratio (greater than or equal to $\frac{1}{2}$) for monotone objective functions.  We provide new examples of online problems on the positive orthant % and the positive semidefinite cone  that satisfy the sufficient condition.  We show how smoothing can improve the competitive ratio of these algorithms, and in particular for separable functions, we show that the optimal smoothing can be derived by solving a convex optimization problem. This result allows us to directly optimize the competitive ratio bound over a class of smoothing functions, and hence  design effective smoothing customized for a given cost function.
The Forget-me-not Process,We introduce the Forget-me-not Process, an efficient, non-parametric meta-algorithm for online probabilistic sequence prediction for piecewise stationary, repeating sources. Our method works by taking a Bayesian approach to partition a stream of data into postulated task-specific segments, while simultaneously building a model for each task. We provide regret guarantees with respect to piecewise stationary data sources under the logarithmic loss, and validate the method empirically across a range of sequence prediction and task identification problems.
Generating Videos with Scene Dynamics,We capitalize on large amounts of unlabeled video in order to learn a model of scene dynamics for both video recognition tasks (e.g. action classification) and video generation tasks (e.g. future prediction). We propose a generative adversarial network for video with a spatio-temporal convolutional architecture that untangles the scene's foreground from the background. Experiments suggest this model can generate tiny videos up to a second at full frame rate better than simple baselines, and we show its utility at predicting plausible futures of static images. Moreover, experiments and visualizations show the model internally learns useful features for recognizing actions with minimal supervision, suggesting scene dynamics are a promising signal for representation learning. We believe generative video models can impact many applications in video understanding and simulation.
The Robustness of Estimator Composition,We formalize notions of robustness for composite estimators via the notion of a breakdown point.  A composite estimator successively applies two (or more) estimators: on data decomposed into disjoint parts, it applies the first estimator on each part, then the second estimator on the outputs of the first estimator. And so on, if the composition is of more than two estimators. Informally, the breakdown point is the minimum fraction of data points which if significantly modified will also significantly modify the output of the estimator, so it is typically desirable to have a large breakdown point. Our main result shows that, under mild conditions on the individual estimators, the breakdown point of the composite estimator is the product of the breakdown points of the individual estimators. We also demonstrate several scenarios, ranging from regression to statistical testing, where this analysis is easy to apply, useful in understanding worst case robustness, and sheds powerful insights onto the associated data analysis.
Improved Deep Metric Learning with Multi-class N-pair Loss Objective,Deep metric learning has gained much popularity in recent years, following the success of deep learning. However, existing frameworks of deep metric learning based on contrastive loss and triplet loss often suffer from slow convergence, partially because they employ only one negative example while not interacting with the other negative classes in each update. In this paper, we propose to address this problem with a new metric learning objective called multi-class N-pair loss. The proposed objective function firstly generalizes triplet loss by allowing joint comparison among more than one negative examples  more specifically, N-1 negative examples  and secondly reduces the computational burden of evaluating deep embedding vectors via an efficient batch construction strategy using only N pairs of examples, instead of (N+1)N. We demonstrate the superiority of our proposed loss to the triplet loss as well as other competing loss functions for a variety of tasks on several visual recognition benchmark, including fine-grained object recognition and verification, image clustering and retrieval, and face verification and identification.
Preference Completion from Partial Rankings,We propose a novel and efficient algorithm for the collaborative preference completion problem, which involves jointly estimating individualized rankings for a set of entities over a shared set of items, based on a limited number of observed affinity values. Our approach exploits the observation that while preferences are often recorded as numerical scores, the predictive quantity of interest is the underlying rankings. Thus, attempts to closely match the recorded scores may lead to overfitting and impair generalization performance. Instead, we propose an estimator that directly fits the underlying preference order, combined with nuclear norm constraints to encourage low--rank parameters.  Besides (approximate) correctness of the ranking order, the proposed estimator makes no generative assumption on the numerical scores of the observations. One consequence is that  the proposed estimator can fit any consistent partial ranking over a subset of the items represented as a directed acyclic graph (DAG), generalizing standard techniques that can only fit preference scores. Despite this generality, for supervision representing total or blockwise total orders, the computational complexity of our algorithm is within a $\log$ factor of the standard algorithms for nuclear norm regularization based estimates for matrix completion. We further show promising empirical results for a novel and challenging application of collaboratively ranking of the associations between brain--regions and cognitive neuroscience terms.
Bayesian optimization under mixed constraints  with a slack-variable augmented Lagrangian,An augmented Lagrangian (AL) can convert a constrained optimization problem into a sequence of simpler (e.g., unconstrained) problems which are then usually solved with local solvers. Recently, surrogate-based Bayesian optimization (BO) sub-solvers have been successfully deployed in the AL framework for a more global search in the presence of inequality constraints; however a drawback was that expected improvement (EI) evaluations relied on Monte Carlo. Here we introduce an alternative slack variable AL, and show that in this formulation the EI may be evaluated with library routines. The slack variables furthermore facilitate equality as well as inequality constraints, and mixtures thereof. We show our new slack "ALBO" compares favorably to the original. Its superiority over conventional alternatives is reinforced on several new mixed constraint examples.
Privacy Odometers and Filters: Pay-as-you-Go Composition,In this paper we initiate the study of adaptive composition in differential privacy when the length of the composition, and the privacy parameters themselves can be chosen adaptively, as a function of the outcome of previously run analyses. This case is much more delicate than the setting covered by existing composition theorems, in which the algorithms themselves can be chosen adaptively, but the privacy parameters must be fixed up front. Indeed, it isn't even clear how to define differential privacy in the adaptive parameter setting. We proceed by defining two objects which cover the two main use cases of composition theorems. A privacy filter is a stopping time rule that allows an analyst to halt a computation before his pre-specified privacy budget is exceeded. A privacy odometer allows the analyst to track realized privacy loss as he goes, without needing to pre-specify a privacy budget. We show that unlike the case in which privacy parameters are fixed, in the adaptive parameter setting, these two use cases are distinct. We show that there exist privacy filters with bounds comparable (up to constants) with existing privacy composition theorems. We also give a privacy odometer that nearly matches non-adaptive private composition theorems, but is sometimes worse by a small asymptotic factor. Moreover, we show that this is inherent, and that any valid privacy odometer in the adaptive parameter setting must lose this factor, which shows a formal separation between the filter and odometer use-cases.
Large Margin Discriminant Dimensionality Reduction in Prediction Space,In this paper we establish a duality between boosting and SVM, and use this to derive a novel discriminant dimensionality reduction algorithm. In particular, using the multiclass formulation of boosting and SVM we note that both use a combination of mapping and linear classification to maximize the multiclass margin. In SVM this is implemented using a pre-defined mapping (induced by the kernel) and optimizing the linear classifiers. In boosting the linear classifiers are pre-defined and the mapping (predictor) is learned through combination of weak learners. We argue that the intermediate mapping, e.g. boosting predictor, is preserving the discriminant aspects of the data and by controlling the dimension of this mapping it is possible to achieve discriminant low dimensional representations for the data. We use the aforementioned duality and propose a new method, Large Margin Discriminant Dimensionality Reduction (LADDER) that jointly learns the mapping and the linear classifiers in an efficient manner. This leads to a data-driven mapping which can embed data into any number of dimensions. Experimental results show that this embedding can significantly improve performance on tasks such as hashing and image/scene classification.
Tight Complexity Bounds for Optimizing Composite Objectives,We provide tight upper and lower bounds on the complexity of minimizing the average of m convex functions using gradient and prox oracles of the component functions. We show a significant gap between the complexity of deterministic vs randomized optimization. For smooth functions, we show that accelerated gradient descent (AGD) and an accelerated variant of SVRG are optimal in the deterministic and randomized settings respectively, and that a gradient oracle is sufficient for the optimal rate. For non-smooth functions, having access to prox oracles reduces the complexity and we present optimal methods based on smoothing that improve over methods using just gradient accesses.
Automatic Neuron Detection in Calcium Imaging Data Using Convolutional Networks,Calcium imaging is an important technique for monitoring the activity of thousands of neurons simultaneously. As calcium imaging datasets grow in size, automated detection of individual neurons is becoming important. Here we apply a supervised learning approach to this problem and show that convolutional networks can achieve near-human accuracy and superhuman speed. Accuracy is superior to the popular PCA/ICA method based on precision and recall relative to ground truth annotation by a human expert. These results suggest that convolutional networks are an efficient and flexible tool for the analysis of large-scale calcium imaging data.
Hierarchical Deep Reinforcement Learning: Integrating Temporal Abstraction and Intrinsic Motivation,Learning goal-directed behavior in environments with sparse feedback is a major challenge for reinforcement learning algorithms. One of the key difficulties is insufficient exploration, resulting in an agent being unable to learn robust policies. Intrinsically motivated agents can explore new behavior for their own sake rather than to directly solve external goals. Such intrinsic behaviors could eventually help the agent solve tasks posed by the environment. We present hierarchical-DQN (h-DQN), a framework to integrate hierarchical action-value functions, operating at different temporal scales, with goal-driven intrinsically motivated deep reinforcement learning. A top-level q-value function learns a policy over intrinsic goals, while a lower-level function learns a policy over atomic actions to satisfy the given goals. h-DQN allows for flexible goal specifications, such as functions over entities and relations. This provides an efficient space for exploration in complicated environments. We demonstrate the strength of our approach on two problems with very sparse and delayed feedback: (1) a complex discrete stochastic decision process with stochastic transitions, and (2) the classic ATARI game -- `Montezuma's Revenge'.
Conditional Image Generation with PixelCNN Decoders,This work explores conditional image generation with a new image density model based on the PixelCNN architecture. The model can be conditioned on any vector, including descriptive labels or tags, or latent embeddings created by other networks. When conditioned on class labels from the ImageNet database, the model is able to generate diverse, realistic scenes representing distinct animals, objects, landscapes and structures. When conditioned on an embedding produced by a convolutional network given a single image of an unseen face, it generates a variety of new portraits of the same person with different facial expressions, poses and lighting conditions. We also show that conditional PixelCNN can serve as a powerful decoder in an image autoencoder. Additionally, the gated convolutional layers in the proposed model improve the log-likelihood of PixelCNN to match the state-of-the-art performance of PixelRNN on ImageNet, with greatly reduced computational cost.
Natural-Parameter Networks: A Class of Probabilistic Neural Networks,Neural networks (NN) have achieved state-of-the-art performance in various applications. Unfortunately in applications where training data is insufficient, they are often prone to overfitting. One effective way to alleviate this problem is to exploit the Bayesian approach by using Bayesian neural networks (BNN). Another shortcoming of NN is the lack of flexibility to customize different distributions for the weights and neurons according to the data, as is often done in probabilistic graphical models. To address these problems, we propose a class of probabilistic neural networks, dubbed natural-parameter networks (NPN), as a novel and lightweight Bayesian treatment of NN. NPN allows the usage of arbitrary exponential-family distributions to model the weights and neurons. Different from traditional NN and BNN, NPN takes distributions as input and goes through layers of transformation before producing distributions to match the target output distributions. As a Bayesian treatment, efficient backpropagation (BP) is performed to learn the natural parameters for the distributions over both the weights and neurons. The output distributions of each layer, as byproducts, may be used as second-order representations for the associated tasks such as link prediction. Experiments on real-world datasets show that NPN can achieve state-of-the-art performance.
Long-term Causal Effects via Behavioral Game Theory,Planned experiments are the gold standard in reliably comparing the causal effect of switching from a baseline policy to a new policy. % One critical shortcoming of classical experimental methods, however, is that they typically do not take into account the dynamic nature of response to policy changes. For instance, in an experiment where we seek to understand the effects of a new ad pricing policy on auction revenue, agents may adapt their bidding in response to the experimental pricing changes. Thus, causal effects of the new pricing policy after such adaptation period, the {\em long-term causal effects}, are not captured by the classical methodology even though they clearly are more indicative of the value of the new policy. %  Here, we formalize a framework to define and estimate long-term causal effects of   policy changes in multiagent economies.  Central to our approach is behavioral game theory, which we leverage   to formulate the ignorability assumptions that are necessary for causal inference.  Under such assumptions we estimate long-term causal effects through a latent space approach, where a behavioral model of how agents act conditional on their latent behaviors is combined with a temporal model of how behaviors evolve over time.
PerforatedCNNs: Acceleration through Elimination of Redundant Convolutions,We propose a novel approach to reduce the computational cost of evaluation of convolutional neural networks, a factor that has hindered their deployment in low-power devices such as mobile phones. Inspired by the loop perforation technique from source code optimization, we speed up the bottleneck convolutional layers by skipping their evaluation in some of the spatial positions. We propose and analyze several strategies of choosing these positions. We demonstrate that perforation can accelerate modern convolutional networks such as AlexNet and VGG-16 by a factor of 2x - 4x. Additionally, we show that perforation is complementary to the recently proposed acceleration method of Zhang et al.
A Probabilistic Programming Approach To Probabilistic Data Analysis,Probabilistic techniques are central to data analysis, but different approaches can be challenging to apply, combine, and compare. This paper introduces composable generative population models (CGPMs), a computational abstraction that extends directed graphical models and can be used to describe and compose a broad class of probabilistic data analysis techniques. Examples include discriminative machine learning, hierarchical Bayesian models, multivariate kernel methods, clustering algorithms, and arbitrary probabilistic programs. We demonstrate the integration of CGPMs into BayesDB, a probabilistic programming platform that can express data analysis tasks using a modeling definition language and structured query language. The practical value is illustrated in two ways. First, the paper describes an analysis on a database of Earth satellites, which identifies records that probably violate Keplers Third Law by composing causal probabilistic programs with non-parametric Bayes in 50 lines of probabilistic code. Second, it reports the lines of code and accuracy of CGPMs compared with baseline solutions from standard machine learning libraries.
Learning Bayesian networks with ancestral constraints,We consider the problem of learning Bayesian networks optimally, when subject to background knowledge in the form of ancestral constraints. Our approach is based on a recently proposed framework for optimal structure learning based on non-decomposable scores, which is general enough to accommodate ancestral constraints. The proposed framework exploits oracles for learning structures using decomposable scores, which cannot accommodate ancestral constraints since they are non-decomposable. We show how to empower these oracles by passing them decomposable constraints that they can handle, which are inferred from ancestral constraints that they cannot handle. Empirically, we demonstrate that our approach can be orders-of-magnitude more efficient than alternative frameworks, such as those based on integer linear programming.
Solving Random Systems of Quadratic Equations via Truncated Generalized Gradient Flow,This paper puts forth a novel algorithm, termed \emph{truncated generalized gradient flow} (TGGF), to solve for $\bm{x}\in\mathbb{R}^n/\mathbb{C}^n$ a system of $m$ quadratic equations $y_i=|\langle\bm{a}_i,\bm{x}\rangle|^2$, $i=1,2,\ldots,m$, which even for $\left\{\bm{a}_i\in\mathbb{R}^n/\mathbb{C}^n\right\}_{i=1}^m$ random is known to be \emph{NP-hard} in general. We prove that as soon as the number of equations $m$ is on the order of the number of unknowns $n$, TGGF recovers the solution exactly (up to a global unimodular constant) with high probability and complexity growing linearly with the time required to read the data $\left\{\left(\bm{a}_i;\,y_i\right)\right\}_{i=1}^m$. Specifically, TGGF proceeds in two stages: s1) A novel \emph{orthogonality-promoting} initialization that is obtained with simple power iterations; and, s2) a refinement of the initial estimate by successive updates of scalable \emph{truncated generalized gradient iterations}. The former is in sharp contrast to the existing spectral initializations, while the latter handles the rather challenging nonconvex and nonsmooth \emph{amplitude-based} cost function. Numerical tests demonstrate that: i) The novel orthogonality-promoting initialization method returns more accurate and robust estimates relative to its spectral counterparts; and ii) even with the same initialization, our refinement/truncation outperforms Wirtinger-based alternatives, all corroborating the superior performance of TGGF over state-of-the-art algorithms.
Balancing Suspense and Surprise: Timely Decision Making with Endogenous Information Acquisition,We develop a Bayesian model for decision-making under time pressure with endogenous information acquisition. In our model, the decision-maker decides when to observe (costly) information by sampling an underlying continuous-time stochastic process (time series) that conveys information about the potential occurrence/non-occurrence of an adverse event which will terminate the decision-making process. In her attempt to predict the occurrence of the adverse event, the decision-maker follows a policy that determines when to acquire information from the time series (continuation), and when to stop acquiring information and make a final prediction (stopping). We show that the optimal policy has a "rendezvous" structure, i.e. a structure in which whenever a new information sample is gathered from the time series, the optimal "date" for acquiring the next sample becomes computable. The optimal interval between two information samples balances a trade-off between the decision makers "surprise", i.e. the drift in her posterior belief after observing new information, and "suspense", i.e. the probability that the adverse event occurs in the time interval between two information samples. Moreover, we characterize the continuation and stopping regions in the decision-makers state-space, and show that they depend not only on the decision-makers beliefs, but also on the "context", i.e. the current realization of the time series.
Structure-Blind Signal Recovery,We consider the problem of recovering a signal observed in Gaussian noise. If the set of signals is convex and compact, and can be specified beforehand, one can use classical linear estimators that achieve a risk within a constant factor of the minimax risk. However, when the set is unspecified, designing an estimator that is blind to the hidden structure of the signal remains a challenging problem. We propose a new family of estimators to recover signals observed in Gaussian noise. Instead of specifying the set where the signal lives, we assume the existence of a well-performing linear estimator. Proposed estimators enjoy exact oracle inequalities and can be efficiently computed through convex optimization. We present several numerical illustrations that show the potential of the approach.
Spatiotemporal Residual Networks for Video Action Recognition,Two-stream Convolutional Networks (ConvNets) have shown strong performance for human action recognition in videos. Recently, Residual Networks (ResNets) have arisen as a new technique to train extremely deep architectures. In this paper, we introduce spatiotemporal ResNets as a combination of these two approaches. Our novel architecture generalizes ResNets for the spatiotemporal domain by introducing residual connections in two ways. First, we inject residual connections between the appearance and motion pathways of a two-stream architecture to allow spatiotemporal interaction between the two streams. Second, we transform pretrained image ConvNets into spatiotemporal networks by equipping these with learnable convolutional filters that are initialized as temporal residual connections and operate on adjacent feature maps in time.  This approach slowly increases the spatiotemporal receptive field as the depth of the model increases and naturally integrates image ConvNet design principles. The whole model is trained end-to-end to allow hierarchical learning of complex spatiotemporal features. We evaluate our novel spatiotemporal ResNet using two widely used action recognition benchmarks where it exceeds the previous state-of-the-art.
CMA-ES with Optimal Covariance Update and Storage Complexity,The covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy (CMA-ES) is arguably one of the most powerful real-valued derivative-free optimization algorithms, finding many applications in machine learning. The CMA-ES is a Monte Carlo method, sampling from a sequence of multi-variate Gaussian distributions. Given the function values at the sampled points, updating and storing the covariance matrix dominates the time and space complexity in each iteration of the algorithm. We propose a numerically stable quadratic-time covariance matrix update scheme with minimal memory requirements based on maintaining triangular Cholesky factors. This requires a modification of the cumulative step-size adaption (CSA) mechanism in the CMA-ES, in which we replace the inverse of the square root of the covariance matrix by the inverse of the triangular Cholesky factor. Because the triangular Cholesky factor changes smoothly with the matrix square root, this modification does not change the behavior of the CMA-ES in terms of required objective function evaluations as verified empirically. Thus, the described algorithm can and should replace the standard CMA-ES if updating and storing the covariance matrix matters.
Latent Attention For If-Then Program Synthesis,Automatic translation from natural language descriptions into programs is a long-standing challenging problem. In this work, we consider a simple yet important sub-problem: translation from textual  descriptions to If-Then programs. We devise a novel neural network architecture for this task which we train end-to-end. Specifically, we introduce Latent Attention, which computes multiplicative weights for the words in the description in a two-stage process with the goal of better leveraging the natural language structures that indicate the relevant parts for predicting program elements. Our architecture reduces the error rate by 28.57% compared to prior art. We also propose a one-shot learning scenario of If-Then program synthesis and simulate it with our existing dataset. We demonstrate a variation on the training procedure for this scenario that outperforms the original procedure, significantly closing the gap to the model trained with all data.
The Sound of APALM Clapping: Faster Nonsmooth Nonconvex Optimization with Stochastic Asynchronous PALM,We introduce the Stochastic Asynchronous Proximal Alternating Linearized Minimization (SAPALM) method, a block coordinate stochastic proximal-gradient method for solving nonconvex, nonsmooth optimization problems. SAPALM is the first asynchronous parallel optimization method that provably converges on a large class of nonconvex, nonsmooth problems. We prove that SAPALM matches the best known rates of convergence --- among synchronous or asynchronous methods --- on this problem class. We provide upper bounds on the number of workers for which we can expect to see a linear speedup, which match the best bounds known for less complex problems, and show that in practice SAPALM achieves this linear speedup. We demonstrate state-of-the-art performance on several matrix factorization problems.
An Efficient Streaming Algorithm for the Submodular Cover Problem,We initiate the study of the classical Submodular Cover (SC) problem in the data streaming model which we refer to as the Streaming Submodular Cover (SSC). We show that any single pass streaming algorithm using sublinear memory in the size of the stream will fail to provide any non-trivial approximation guarantees for SSC. Hence, we consider a relaxed version of SSC, where we only seek to find a partial cover. We design the first Efficient bicriteria Submodular Cover Streaming (ESC-Streaming) algorithm for this problem, and provide theoretical guarantees for its performance supported by numerical evidence. Our algorithm finds solutions that are competitive with the near-optimal offline greedy algorithm despite requiring only a single pass over the data stream. In our numerical experiments, we evaluate the performance of ESC-Streaming on active set selection and large-scale graph cover problems.
Attend, Infer, Repeat: Fast Scene Understanding with Generative Models,We present a framework for efficient inference in structured image models that explicitly reason about objects. We achieve this by performing probabilistic inference using a recurrent neural network that attends to scene elements and processes them one at a time. Crucially, the model itself learns to choose the appropriate number of inference steps. We use this scheme to learn to perform inference in partially specified 2D models (variable-sized variational auto-encoders) and fully specified 3D models (probabilistic renderers). We show that such models learn to identify multiple objects - counting, locating and classifying the elements of a scene - without any supervision, e.g., decomposing 3D images with various numbers of objects in a single forward pass of a neural network at unprecedented speed. We further show that the networks produce accurate inferences when compared to supervised counterparts, and that their structure leads to improved generalization.
An ensemble diversity approach to supervised binary hashing,Binary hashing is a well-known approach for fast approximate nearest-neighbor search in information retrieval. Much work has focused on affinity-based objective functions involving the hash functions or binary codes. These objective functions encode neighborhood information between data points and are often inspired by manifold learning algorithms. They ensure that the hash functions differ from each other through constraints or penalty terms that encourage codes to be orthogonal or dissimilar across bits, but this couples the binary variables and complicates the already difficult optimization. We propose a much simpler approach: we train each hash function (or bit) independently from each other, but introduce diversity among them using techniques from classifier ensembles. Surprisingly, we find that not only is this faster and trivially parallelizable, but it also improves over the more complex, coupled objective function, and achieves state-of-the-art precision and recall in experiments with image retrieval.
End-to-End Goal-Driven Web Navigation,We propose a goal-driven web navigation as a benchmark task for evaluating an agent with abilities to understand natural language and plan on partially observed environments. In this challenging task, an agent navigates through a website, which is represented as a graph consisting of web pages as nodes and hyperlinks as directed edges, to find a web page in which a query appears. The agent is required to have sophisticated high-level reasoning based on natural languages and efficient sequential decision-making capability to succeed. We release a software tool, called WebNav, that automatically transforms a website into this goal-driven web navigation task, and as an example, we make WikiNav, a dataset constructed from the English Wikipedia. We extensively evaluate different variants of neural net based artificial agents on WikiNav and observe that the proposed goal-driven web navigation well reflects the advances in models, making it a suitable benchmark for evaluating future progress. Furthermore, we extend the WikiNav with question-answer pairs from Jeopardy! and test the proposed agent based on recurrent neural networks against strong inverted index based search engines. The artificial agents trained on WikiNav outperforms the engined based approaches, demonstrating the capability of the proposed goal-driven navigation as a good proxy for measuring the progress in real-world tasks such as focused crawling and question-answering.
The Power of Adaptivity in Identifying Statistical Alternatives,This paper studies the trade-off between two different kinds of pure exploration: breadth versus depth. We focus on the most biased coin problem, asking how many total coin flips are required to identify a ``heavy'' coin from an infinite bag containing both ``heavy'' coins with mean $\theta_1 \in (0,1)$, and ``light" coins with mean $\theta_0 \in (0,\theta_1)$, where heavy coins are drawn from the bag with proportion $\alpha \in (0,1/2)$. When $\alpha,\theta_0,\theta_1$ are unknown, the key difficulty of this problem lies in distinguishing whether the two kinds of coins have very similar means, or whether heavy coins are just extremely rare. While existing solutions to this problem require some prior knowledge of the parameters $\theta_0,\theta_1,\alpha$, we propose an adaptive algorithm that requires no such knowledge yet still obtains near-optimal sample complexity guarantees. In contrast, we provide a lower bound showing that non-adaptive strategies require at least quadratically more samples.  In characterizing this gap between adaptive and nonadaptive strategies,  we make connections to anomaly detection and prove lower bounds on the sample complexity of differentiating between a single parametric distribution and a mixture of two such distributions.
A Probabilistic Framework for Deep Learning,We develop a probabilistic framework for deep learning based on the Deep Rendering Mixture Model (DRMM), a new generative probabilistic model that explicitly capture variations in data due to latent task nuisance variables. We demonstrate that max-sum inference in the DRMM yields an algorithm that exactly reproduces the operations in deep convolutional neural networks (DCNs), providing a first principles derivation. Our framework provides new insights into the successes and shortcomings of DCNs as well as a principled route to their improvement. DRMM training via the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm is a powerful alternative to DCN back-propagation, and initial training results are promising. Classification based on the DRMM and other variants outperforms DCNs in supervised digit classification, training 2-3x faster while achieving similar accuracy. Moreover, the DRMM is applicable to semi-supervised and unsupervised learning tasks, achieving results that are state-of-the-art in several categories on the MNIST benchmark and comparable to state of the art on the CIFAR10 benchmark.
Minimax Estimation of Maximum Mean Discrepancy with Radial Kernels,Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) is a distance on the space of probability measures which has found numerous applications in machine learning and nonparametric testing. This distance is based on the notion of embedding probabilities in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. In this paper, we present the first known lower bounds for the estimation of MMD based on finite samples. Our lower bounds hold for any radial universal kernel on $\R^d$ and match the existing upper bounds up to constants that depend only on the properties of the kernel. Using these lower bounds, we establish the minimax rate optimality of the empirical estimator and its $U$-statistic variant, which are usually employed in applications.
Adaptive Neural Compilation,This paper proposes an adaptive neural-compilation framework to address the problem of learning efficient program. Traditional code optimisation strategies used in compilers are based on applying pre-specified set of transformations that make the code faster to execute without changing its semantics. In contrast, our work involves adapting programs to make them more efficient while considering correctness only on a target input distribution. Our approach is inspired by the recent works on differentiable representations of programs. We show that it is possible to compile programs written in a low-level  language to a differentiable representation. We also show how programs in this representation can be optimised to make them efficient on a target distribution of inputs. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach enables learning specifically-tuned algorithms for given data distributions with a high success rate.
Tagger: Deep Unsupervised Perceptual Grouping,We present a framework for efficient perceptual inference that explicitly reasons about the segmentation of its inputs and features.  Rather than being trained for any specific segmentation, our framework learns the grouping process in an unsupervised manner or alongside any supervised task. We enable a neural network to group the representations of different objects in an iterative manner through a differentiable mechanism.  We achieve very fast convergence by allowing the system to amortize the joint iterative inference of the groupings and their representations.  In contrast to many other recently proposed methods for addressing multi-object scenes, our system does not assume the inputs to be images and can therefore directly handle other modalities. We evaluate our method on multi-digit classification of very cluttered images that require texture segmentation. Remarkably our method achieves improved classification performance over convolutional networks despite being fully connected, by making use of the grouping mechanism. Furthermore, we observe that our system greatly improves upon the semi-supervised result of a baseline Ladder network on our dataset. These results are evidence that grouping is a powerful tool that can help to improve sample efficiency.
A scaled Bregman theorem with applications,Bregman divergences play a central role in the design and analysis of a range of machine learning algorithms through a handful of popular theorems. We present a new theorem which shows that ``Bregman distortions'' (employing a potentially non-convex generator) may be exactly re-written as a scaled Bregman divergence computed over transformed data. This property can be viewed from the standpoints of geometry (a scaled isometry with adaptive metrics) or convex optimization (relating generalized perspective transforms). Admissible distortions include {geodesic distances} on curved manifolds and projections or gauge-normalisation.  Our theorem allows one to leverage to the wealth and convenience of Bregman divergences when analysing algorithms relying on the aforementioned Bregman distortions.  We illustrate this with three novel applications of our theorem: a reduction from multi-class density ratio to class-probability estimation, a new adaptive projection free yet norm-enforcing  dual norm mirror descent algorithm,  and a reduction from clustering on flat manifolds to clustering on curved manifolds. Experiments on each of these domains validate the analyses and suggest that the scaled Bregman theorem might be a worthy addition to the popular handful of Bregman divergence properties that have been pervasive in machine learning.
Learning feed-forward one-shot learners,One-shot learning is usually tackled by using generative models or discriminative embeddings. Discriminative methods based on deep learning, which are very effective in other learning scenarios, are ill-suited for one-shot learning as they need large amounts of training data. In this paper, we propose a method to learn the parameters of a deep model in one shot. We construct the learner as a second deep network, called a learnet, which predicts the parameters of a pupil network from a single exemplar. In this manner we obtain an efficient feed-forward one-shot learner, trained end-to-end by minimizing a one-shot classification objective in a learning to learn formulation. In order to make the construction feasible, we propose a number of factorizations of the parameters of the pupil network. We demonstrate encouraging results by learning characters from single exemplars in Omniglot, and by tracking visual objects from a single initial exemplar in the Visual Object Tracking benchmark.
Error Analysis of Generalized Nystrm Kernel Regression,Nystr\"{o}m method has been used successfully to improve the computational efficiency of  kernel ridge regression (KRR). Recently, theoretical analysis of Nystr\"{o}m KRR, including generalization bound and convergence rate, has been established based on  reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) associated with the symmetric positive semi-definite kernel. However, in real world applications, RKHS is not always  optimal  and  kernel function is not necessary to be  symmetric or positive semi-definite.  In this paper, we consider  the generalized Nystr\"{o}m  kernel regression (GNKR) with $\ell_2$ coefficient regularization, where the kernel just requires the continuity and boundedness.  Error analysis is provided to characterize its generalization performance  and the column norm sampling is introduced to construct the refined hypothesis space. In particular,  the fast learning rate with polynomial decay is reached for the GNKR. Experimental analysis demonstrates the satisfactory performance of GNKR with the column norm sampling.
Breaking the Bandwidth Barrier: Geometrical Adaptive Entropy Estimation,Estimators of information theoretic measures such as entropy and mutual information from samples are a basic workhorse for many downstream applications in modern data science. State of the art approaches have been either geometric (nearest neighbor (NN) based) or kernel based (with bandwidth chosen to be data independent and vanishing sub linearly in the sample size). In this paper we combine both these approaches to design new estimators of entropy and mutual information that strongly outperform all state of the art methods. Our estimator uses bandwidth choice of fixed $k$-NN distances; such a choice is both data dependent and linearly vanishing in the sample size and necessitates a bias cancellation term that  is  universal and independent of the underlying distribution. As a byproduct, we obtain a unified way of obtaining both kernel and NN estimators.  The corresponding theoretical contribution relating the geometry of NN distances to asymptotic order statistics  is of independent mathematical interest.
Asynchronous Parallel Greedy Coordinate Descent,n this paper, we propose and study an Asynchronous parallel Greedy Coordinate Descent (Asy-GCD) algorithm for minimizing a smooth function with bounded constraints. At each iteration, workers asynchronously conduct greedy coordinate descent updates on a block of variables.  In the first part of the paper, we analyze the theoretical behavior of Asy-GCD and prove a linear convergence rate.  In the second part, we develop an efficient kernel SVM solver based on Asy-GCD in the shared memory multi-core setting.  Since our algorithm is fully asynchronous---each core does not need to idle and wait for the other cores---the  resulting algorithm enjoys good speedup and outperforms existing multi-core kernel SVM solvers including asynchronous stochastic coordinate descent and multi-core LIBSVM.
Structured Prediction Theory Based on Factor Graph Complexity,We present a general theoretical analysis of structured prediction with a series of new results. We give new data-dependent margin guarantees for structured prediction for a very wide family of loss functions and a general family of hypotheses, with an arbitrary factor graph decomposition. These are the tightest margin bounds known for both standard multi-class and general structured prediction problems.  Our guarantees are expressed in terms of a data-dependent complexity measure, \emph{factor graph complexity}, which we show can be estimated from data and bounded in terms of familiar quantities for several commonly used hypothesis sets, and a sparsity measure for features and graphs. Our proof techniques include generalizations of Talagrand's contraction lemma that can be of independent interest. We further extend our theory by leveraging the principle of Voted Risk Minimization (VRM) and show that learning is possible even with complex factor graphs.  We present new learning bounds for this advanced setting, which we use to devise two new algorithms, \emph{Voted Conditional Random Field} (VCRF) and \emph{Voted Structured Boosting} (StructBoost). These algorithms can make use of complex features and factor graphs and yet benefit from favorable learning guarantees. We also report the results of experiments with VCRF on several datasets to validate our theory.
Parameter Learning for Log-supermodular Distributions,We consider log-supermodular models on binary variables, which are probabilistic models with negative log-densities which are submodular. These models provide probabilistic interpretations of common combinatorial optimization tasks such as image segmentation. In this paper, we focus primarily on parameter estimation in the models from  known upper-bounds on the intractable  log-partition function. We show that the bound based on separable optimization on the base polytope of the submodular function is always inferior to a bound based on ``perturb-and-MAP'' ideas. Then, to learn parameters, given that our approximation of the log-partition function is an expectation (over our own randomization), we use a stochastic subgradient technique to maximize a lower-bound on the log-likelihood. This can also be extended to conditional maximum likelihood. We illustrate our new results in a set of experiments in binary image denoising, where we highlight the flexibility of a probabilistic model to learn with missing data.
Exact Recovery of Hard Thresholding Pursuit,The Hard Thresholding Pursuit (HTP) is a class of truncated gradient descent methods for finding sparse solutions of $\ell_0$-constrained loss minimization problems. The HTP-style methods have been shown to have strong approximation guarantee and impressive numerical performance in high dimensional statistical learning applications. However, the current theoretical treatment of these methods has traditionally been restricted to the analysis of parameter estimation consistency. It remains an open problem to analyze the support recovery performance (a.k.a., sparsistency) of this type of methods for recovering the global minimizer of the original NP-hard problem. In this paper, we bridge this gap by showing, for the first time, that exact recovery of the global sparse minimizer is possible for HTP-style methods under restricted strong condition number bounding conditions. We further show that HTP-style methods are able to recover the support of certain relaxed sparse solutions without assuming bounded restricted strong condition number. Numerical results on simulated data confirms our theoretical predictions.
New Liftable Classes for First-Order Probabilistic Inference,Statistical relational models provide compact encodings of probabilistic dependencies in relational domains, but result in highly intractable graphical models. The goal of lifted inference is to carry out probabilistic inference without needing to reason about each individual separately, by instead treating exchangeable, undistinguished objects as a whole. In this paper, we study the domain recursion inference rule, which, despite its central role in early theoretical results on domain-lifted inference, has later been believed redundant. We show that this rule is more powerful than expected, and in fact significantly extends the range of models for which lifted inference runs in time polynomial in the number of individuals in the domain. This includes an open problem called S4, the symmetric transitivity model, and a first-order logic encoding of the birthday paradox. We further identify new classes S2FO2 and S2RU of domain-liftable theories, which respectively subsume FO2 and recursively unary theories, the largest classes of domain-liftable theories known so far, and show that using domain recursion can achieve exponential speedup even in theories that cannot fully be lifted with the existing set of inference rules.
Variational Inference in Mixed Probabilistic Submodular Models,We consider the problem of variational inference in probabilistic models with both log-submodular and log-supermodular higher-order potentials. These models can represent arbitrary distributions over binary variables, and thus generalize the commonly used pairwise Markov random fields and models with log-supermodular potentials only, for which efficient approximate inference algorithms are known. While inference in the considered models is #P-hard in general, we present efficient approximate algorithms exploiting recent advances in the field of discrete optimization. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in a large set of experiments, where our model allows reasoning about preferences over sets of items with complements and substitutes.
Unifying Count-Based Exploration and Intrinsic Motivation,We consider an agent's uncertainty about its environment and the problem of generalizing this uncertainty across states. Specifically, we focus on the problem of exploration in non-tabular reinforcement learning. Drawing inspiration from the intrinsic motivation literature, we use density models to measure uncertainty, and propose a novel algorithm for deriving a pseudo-count from an arbitrary density model. This technique enables us to generalize count-based exploration algorithms to the non-tabular case. We apply our ideas to Atari 2600 games, providing sensible pseudo-counts from raw pixels. We transform these pseudo-counts into exploration bonuses and obtain significantly improved exploration in a number of hard games, including the infamously difficult Montezuma's Revenge.
Approximate maximum entropy principles via Goemans-Williamson with applications to provable variational methods,The well known maximum-entropy principle due to Jaynes, which states that given mean parameters, the maximum entropy distribution matching them is in an exponential family has been very popular in machine learning due to its Occams razor interpretation. Unfortunately, calculating the potentials in the maximum entropy distribution is intractable [BGS14]. We provide computationally efficient versions of this principle when the mean parameters are pairwise moments: we design distributions that approximately match given pairwise moments, while having entropy which is comparable to the maximum entropy distribution matching those moments.  We additionally provide surprising applications of the approximate maximum entropy principle to designing provable variational methods for partition function calculations for Ising models without any assumptions on the potentials of the model. More precisely, we show that we can get approximation guarantees for the log-partition function comparable to those in the low-temperature limit, which is the setting of optimization of quadratic forms over the hypercube. ([AN06])
A Multi-step Inertial Forward-Backward Splitting Method for Non-convex Optimization,In this paper, we propose a multi-step inertial Forward--Backward splitting algorithm for minimizing the sum of two non-necessarily convex functions, one of which is proper lower semi-continuous while the other is differentiable with a Lipschitz continuous gradient. We first prove global convergence of the scheme with the help of the Kurdykaojasiewicz property. Then, when the non-smooth part is also partly smooth relative to a smooth submanifold, we establish finite identification of the latter and provide sharp local linear convergence analysis. The proposed method is illustrated on a few problems arising from statistics and machine learning.
Fast and Flexible Monotonic Functions with Ensembles of Lattices,For many machine learning problems, there are some inputs that are known to be positively (or negatively) related to the output, and in such cases training the model to respect that monotonic relationship can provide regularization, and makes the model more interpretable. However, flexible monotonic functions are computationally challenging to learn beyond a few features. We break through this barrier by learning ensembles of monotonic calibrated interpolated look-up tables (lattices). A key contribution is an automated algorithm for selecting feature subsets for the ensemble base models.  We demonstrate that compared to random forests, these ensembles produce similar or better accuracy, while providing guaranteed monotonicity consistent with prior knowledge, smaller model size and faster evaluation.
Architectural Complexity Measures of Recurrent Neural Networks,In this paper, we systematically analyze the connecting architectures of recurrent neural networks (RNNs). Our main contribution is twofold: first, we present a rigorous graph-theoretic framework describing the connecting architectures of RNNs in general. Second, we propose three architecture complexity measures of RNNs: (a) the recurrent depth, which captures the RNNs over-time nonlinear complexity, (b) the feedforward depth, which captures the local input-output nonlinearity (similar to the depth in feedforward neural networks (FNNs)), and (c) the recurrent skip coefficient which captures how rapidly the information propagates over time. We rigorously prove each measures existence and computability. Our experimental results show that RNNs might benefit from larger recurrent depth and feedforward depth. We further demonstrate that increasing recurrent skip coefficient offers performance boosts on long term dependency problems.
Online Convex Optimization with Unconstrained Domains and Losses,We propose an online convex optimization algorithm (RescaledExp) that achieves optimal regret in the unconstrained setting without prior knowledge of any bounds on the loss functions. We prove a lower bound showing an exponential separation between the regret of existing algorithms that require a known bound on the loss functions and any algorithm that does not require such knowledge. RescaledExp matches this lower bound asymptotically in the number of iterations. RescaledExp is naturally hyperparameter-free and we demonstrate empirically that it matches prior optimization algorithms that require hyperparameter optimization.
Split LBI: An Iterative Regularization Path with Structural Sparsity,An iterative regularization path with structural sparsity is proposed in this paper based on variable splitting and the Linearized Bregman Iteration, hence called \emph{Split LBI}. Despite its simplicity, Split LBI outperforms the popular generalized Lasso in both theory and experiments. A theory of path consistency is presented that equipped with a proper early stopping, Split LBI may achieve model selection consistency under a family of Irrepresentable Conditions which can be weaker than the necessary and sufficient condition for generalized Lasso. Furthermore, some $\ell_2$ error bounds are also given at the minimax optimal rates. The utility and benefit of the algorithm are illustrated by applications on both traditional image denoising and a novel example on partial order ranking.
Variational Autoencoder for Deep Learning of Images, Labels and Captions,A novel variational autoencoder is developed to model images, as well as associated labels or captions. The Deep Generative Deconvolutional Network (DGDN) is used as a decoder of the latent image features, and a deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is used as an image encoder; the CNN is used to approximate a distribution for the latent DGDN features/code. The latent code is also linked to generative models for labels (Bayesian support vector machine) or captions (recurrent neural network). When predicting a label/caption for a new image at test, averaging is performed across the distribution of latent codes; this is computationally efficient as a consequence of the learned CNN-based encoder. Since the framework is capable of modeling the image in the presence/absence of associated labels/captions, a new semi-supervised setting is manifested for CNN learning with images; the framework even allows unsupervised CNN learning, based on images alone.
Recovery Guarantee of Non-negative Matrix Factorization  via Alternating Updates,Non-negative matrix factorization is a popular tool for  decomposing data into feature and weight matrices under non-negativity constraints. It enjoys practical success but is poorly understood theoretically. This paper proposes an algorithm that alternates between decoding the weights and updating the features, and shows that assuming a generative model of the data, it provably recovers the ground-truth under fairly mild conditions. In particular, its only essential requirement on features is linear independence. Furthermore, the algorithm uses ReLU to exploit the non-negativity for decoding the weights, and thus can tolerate adversarial noise that can potentially be as large as the signal, and can tolerate unbiased noise much larger than the signal. The analysis relies on a carefully designed coupling between two potential functions, which we believe is of independent interest.
Proximal Deep Structured Models,Many problems in real-world applications involve predicting continuous-valued random variables that are statistically related.  In this paper, we propose a powerful deep structured model that is able to learn complex non-linear functions which encode the   dependencies between continuous output variables.  We show that  inference in our  model using proximal methods can be efficiently solved as a feed-foward pass of a special  type of  deep recurrent neural network. We demonstrate the  effectiveness of our approach in the tasks of image denoising, depth refinement and optical flow estimation.
Safe Policy Improvement by Minimizing Robust Baseline Regret,An important problem in sequential decision-making under uncertainty is to use limited data to  compute a safe policy, i.e., a policy that is guaranteed to perform at least as well as a given baseline strategy. In this paper, we develop and analyze a new model-based approach to compute a safe policy when we have access to an inaccurate dynamics model of the system with known accuracy guarantees. Our proposed robust method uses this (inaccurate) model to directly minimize the (negative) regret w.r.t. the baseline policy. Contrary to the existing approaches, minimizing the regret allows one to improve the baseline policy in states with accurate dynamics and seamlessly fall back to the baseline policy, otherwise. We show that our formulation is NP-hard and propose an approximate algorithm. Our empirical results on several domains show that even this relatively simple approximate algorithm can significantly outperform standard approaches.
A Pseudo-Bayesian Algorithm for Robust PCA,Commonly used in many applications, robust PCA represents an algorithmic attempt to reduce the sensitivity of classical PCA to outliers.  The basic idea is to learn a decomposition of some data matrix of interest into low rank and sparse components, the latter representing unwanted outliers.  Although the resulting problem is typically NP-hard, convex relaxations provide a computationally-expedient alternative with theoretical support.  However, in practical regimes performance guarantees break down and a variety of non-convex alternatives, including Bayesian-inspired models, have been proposed to boost estimation quality.  Unfortunately though, without additional a priori knowledge none of these methods can significantly expand the critical operational range such that exact principal subspace recovery is possible.  Into this mix we propose a novel pseudo-Bayesian algorithm that explicitly compensates for design weaknesses in many existing non-convex approaches leading to state-of-the-art performance with a sound analytical foundation.
Learning values across many orders of magnitude,Most learning algorithms are not invariant to the scale of the signal that is being approximated. We propose to adaptively normalize the targets used in the learning updates.  This is important in value-based reinforcement learning, where the magnitude of appropriate value approximations can change over time when we update the policy of behavior. Our main motivation is prior work on learning to play Atari games, where the rewards were clipped to a predetermined range. This clipping facilitates learning across many different games with a single learning algorithm, but a clipped reward function can result in qualitatively different behavior. Using adaptive normalization we can remove this domain-specific heuristic without diminishing overall performance.
Single Pass PCA of Matrix Products,In this paper we present a new algorithm for computing a low rank approximation of the product $A^TB$ by taking only a single pass of the two matrices $A$ and $B$. The straightforward way to do this is to (a) first sketch $A$ and $B$ individually, and then (b) find the top components using PCA on the sketch. Our algorithm in contrast retains additional summary information about $A,B$ (e.g. row and column norms etc.) and uses this additional information to obtain an improved approximation from the sketches. Our main analytical result establishes a comparable spectral norm guarantee to existing two-pass methods; in addition we also provide results from an Apache Spark implementation that shows better computational and statistical performance on real-world and synthetic evaluation datasets.
Convolutional Neural Fabrics,Despite the success of CNNs, selecting the optimal architecture for a given task remains an open problem. Instead of aiming to select a single optimal architecture, we propose a ``fabric'' that embeds an exponentially large number of architectures. The fabric consists of a 3D trellis that connects response maps at different layers, scales, and channels  with a sparse homogeneous local connectivity pattern. The only hyper-parameters of a fabric are the number of channels and layers. While individual architectures can be recovered as paths, the fabric can in addition ensemble all embedded architectures together, sharing their weights where their  paths overlap. Parameters can be learned using standard methods based on back-propagation, at a cost that scales linearly in the fabric size. We present benchmark results competitive with the state of the art for image classification on MNIST and CIFAR10, and for semantic segmentation on the Part Labels dataset.
Generative Shape Models: Joint Text Recognition and Segmentation with Very Little Training Data,We demonstrate that a generative model for object shapes can achieve state of the art results on challenging scene text recognition tasks, and with orders of magnitude fewer training images than required for competing discriminative methods. In addition to transcribing text from challenging images, our method performs fine-grained instance segmentation of characters. We show that our model is more robust to both affine transformations and non-affine deformations compared to previous approaches.
Mixed vine copulas as joint models of spike counts and local field potentials,Concurrent measurements of neural activity at multiple scales, sometimes performed with multimodal techniques, become increasingly important for studying brain function. However, statistical methods for their concurrent analysis are currently lacking. Here we introduce such techniques in a framework based on vine copulas with mixed margins to construct multivariate stochastic models. These models can describe detailed mixed interactions between discrete variables such as neural spike counts, and continuous variables such as local field potentials. We propose efficient methods for likelihood calculation, inference, sampling and mutual information estimation within this framework. We test our methods on simulated data and demonstrate applicability on mixed data generated by a biologically realistic neural network. Our methods hold the promise to considerably improve statistical analysis of neural data recorded simultaneously at different scales.
Optimal Black-Box Reductions Between Optimization Objectives,The diverse world of machine learning applications has given rise to a plethora of algorithms and optimization methods, finely tuned to the specific regression or classification task at hand.  We reduce the complexity of algorithm design for machine learning by reductions:  we develop reductions that take a method developed for one setting and apply it to the entire spectrum of smoothness and strong-convexity in applications.  Furthermore, unlike existing results, our new reductions are OPTIMAL and more PRACTICAL. We show how these new reductions give rise to new and faster running times on training linear classifiers for various families of loss functions, and conclude with experiments showing their successes also in practice.
Dialog-based Language Learning,A long-term goal of machine learning research is to build an intelligent dialog agent. Most research in natural language understanding has focused on learning from fixed training sets of labeled data, with supervision either at the word level (tagging, parsing tasks) or sentence level (question answering, machine translation). This kind of supervision is not realistic of how humans learn, where language is both learned by, and used for, communication. In this work, we study dialog-based language learning, where supervision is given naturally and implicitly in the response of the dialog partner during the conversation. We study this setup in two domains: the bAbI dataset of (Weston et al., 2015) and large-scale question answering from (Dodge et al., 2015). We evaluate a set of baseline learning strategies on these tasks, and show that a novel model incorporating predictive lookahead is a promising approach for learning from a teacher's response. In particular, a surprising result is that it can learn to answer questions correctly without any reward-based supervision at all.
Online Bayesian Moment Matching for Topic Modeling with Unknown Number of Topics,Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is a very popular model for topic modeling as well as many other problems with latent groups.  It is both simple and effective.  When the number of topics (or latent groups) is unknown, the Hierarchical Dirichlet Process (HDP) provides an elegant non-parametric extension; however, it is a complex model and it is difficult to incorporate prior knowledge since the distribution over topics is implicit.  We propose two new models that extend LDA in a simple and intuitive fashion by directly expressing a distribution over the number of topics.  We also propose a new online Bayesian moment matching technique to learn the parameters and the number of topics of those models based on streaming data.  The approach achieves higher log-likelihood than batch and online HDP with fixed hyperparameters on several corpora.
A Sparse Interactive Model for Matrix Completion with Side Information,Matrix completion methods can benefit from side information besides the partially observed matrix. The use of side features describing the row and column entities of a matrix has been shown to reduce the sample complexity for completing the matrix. We propose a novel sparse formulation that explicitly models the interaction between the row and column side features to approximate the matrix entries. Unlike early methods, this model does not require the low-rank condition on the model parameter matrix. We prove that when the side features can span the latent feature space of the matrix to be recovered, the number of observed entries needed for an exact recovery is $O(\log N)$ where $N$ is the size of the matrix. When the side features are corrupted latent features of the matrix with a small perturbation, our method can achieve an $\epsilon$-recovery with $O(\log N)$ sample complexity, and maintains a $\O(N^{3/2})$ rate similar to classfic methods with no side information. An efficient linearized Lagrangian algorithm is developed with a strong guarantee of convergence. Empirical results show that our approach outperforms three state-of-the-art methods both in simulations and on real world datasets.
Truncated Variance Reduction: A Unified Approach to Bayesian Optimization and Level-Set Estimation,We present a new algorithm, truncated variance reduction (TruVaR), that treats Bayesian optimization (BO) and level-set estimation (LSE) with Gaussian processes in a unified fashion. The algorithm greedily shrinks a sum of truncated variances within a set of potential maximizers (BO) or unclassified points (LSE), which is updated based on confidence bounds.  TruVaR is effective in several important settings that are typically non-trivial to incorporate into myopic algorithms, including pointwise costs and heteroscedastic noise.  We provide a general theoretical guarantee for TruVaR covering these aspects, and use it to recover and strengthen existing results on BO and LSE.  Moreover, we provide a new result for a setting where one can select from a number of noise levels having associated costs.  We demonstrate the effectiveness of the algorithm on both synthetic and real-world data sets.
On Mixtures of Markov Chains,We study the problem of reconstructing a mixture of Markov chains from the trajectories generated by random walks through the state space.  Under mild non-degeneracy conditions, we show that we can uniquely reconstruct the underlying chains by only considering trajectories of length three, which represent triples of states. Our algorithm is spectral in nature, and is easy to implement.
High Dimensional Structured Superposition Models,High dimensional superposition models characterize observations using parameters which can be written as a sum of multiple component parameters, each with its own structure, e.g., sum of low rank and sparse matrices. In this paper, we consider general superposition models which allow sum of any number of component parameters, and each component structure can be characterized by any norm. We present a simple estimator for such models, give a geometric condition under which the components can be accurately estimated, characterize sample complexity of the estimator, and give non-asymptotic bounds on the componentwise estimation error. We use tools from empirical processes and generic chaining for the statistical analysis, and our results, which substantially generalize prior work on superposition models, are in terms of Gaussian widths of suitable spherical caps.
Finite Sample Prediction and Recovery Bounds for Ordinal Embedding,The goal of ordinal embedding is to represent items as points in a low-dimensional Euclidean space given a set of constraints like ``item $i$ is closer to item $j$ than item $k$''.  Ordinal   constraints like this often come from human judgments.  The classic approach to solving this problem is known as non-metric multidimensional scaling.  To account for errors and variation in judgments, we consider the noisy situation in which the given constraints are independently corrupted by reversing the correct constraint with some probability. The ordinal embedding problem has been studied for decades, but most past work pays little attention to the question of whether accurate embedding is possible, apart from empirical studies.  This paper shows that under a generative data model it is possible to learn the correct embedding from noisy distance comparisons.  In establishing this fundamental result, the paper makes several new contributions. First, we derive prediction error bounds for embedding from noisy distance comparisons by exploiting the fact that the rank of a distance matrix of points in $\R^d$ is at most $d+2$. These bounds characterize how well a learned embedding predicts new comparative judgments. Second, we show that the underlying embedding can be recovered by solving a simple convex optimization.  This result is highly non-trivial since we show that the linear map corresponding to distance comparisons is non-invertible, but there exists a nonlinear map that is invertible. Third, two new algorithms for ordinal embedding are proposed and evaluated in experiments.
What Makes Objects Similar: A Unified Multi-Metric Learning Approach,Linkages are essentially determined by similarity measures that may be derived from multiple perspectives. For example, spatial linkages are usually generated based on localities of heterogeneous data, whereas semantic linkages can come from various properties, such as different physical meanings behind social relations. Many existing metric learning models focus on spatial linkages, but leave the rich semantic factors unconsidered. Similarities based on these models are usually overdetermined on linkages. We propose a Unified Multi-Metric Learning (UM2L) framework to exploit multiple types of metrics. In UM2L, a type of combination operator is introduced for distance characterization from multiple perspectives, and thus can introduce flexibilities for representing and utilizing both spatial and semantic linkages. Besides, we propose a uniform solver for UM2L which is guaranteed to converge. Extensive experiments on diverse applications exhibit the superior classification performance and comprehensibility of UM2L. Visualization results also validate its ability on physical meanings discovery.
Unsupervised Learning of Spoken Language with Visual Context,Humans learn to speak before they can read or write, so why cant computers do the same? In this paper, we present a deep neural network model capable of rudimentary spoken language acquisition using untranscribed audio training data, whose only supervision comes in the form of contextually relevant visual images. We describe the collection of our data comprised of over 120,000 spoken audio captions for the Places image dataset and evaluate our model on an image search and annotation task. We also provide some visualizations which suggest that our model is learning to recognize meaningful words within the caption spectrograms.
Cyclades: Conflict-free Asynchronous Machine Learning,We present Cyclades, a general framework for parallelizing stochastic optimization algorithms in a shared memory setting. Cyclades is asynchronous during model updates, and requires no memory locking mechanisms, similar to Hogwild!-type algorithms. Unlike Hogwild!, Cyclades introduces no conflicts during parallel execution, and offers a black-box analysis for provable speedups across a large family of algorithms.  Due to its inherent cache locality and conflict-free nature,  our multi-core implementation of Cyclades consistently outperforms Hogwild!-type algorithms on sufficiently sparse datasets, leading to up to 40% speedup gains compared to Hogwild!, and up to 5\times gains over asynchronous implementations of variance reduction algorithms.
Disease Trajectory Maps,Medical researchers are coming to appreciate that many diseases are in fact complex, heterogeneous syndromes composed of subpopulations that express different variants of a related complication. Longitudinal data extracted from individual electronic health records (EHR) offer an exciting new way to study subtle differences in the way these diseases progress over time. In this paper, we focus on answering two questions that can be asked using these databases of longitudinal EHR data. First, we want to understand whether there are individuals with similar disease trajectories and whether there are a small number of degrees of freedom that account for differences in trajectories across the population. Second, we want to understand how important clinical outcomes are associated with disease trajectories. To answer these questions, we propose the Disease Trajectory Map (DTM), a novel probabilistic model that learns low-dimensional representations of sparse and irregularly sampled longitudinal data. We propose a stochastic variational inference algorithm for learning the DTM that allows the model to scale to large modern medical datasets. To demonstrate the DTM, we analyze data collected on patients with the complex autoimmune disease, scleroderma. We find that DTM learns meaningful representations of disease trajectories and that the representations are significantly associated with important clinical outcomes.
Fast -free Inference of Simulation Models with Bayesian Conditional Density Estimation,Many statistical models can be simulated forwards but have intractable likelihoods. Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) methods are used to infer properties of these models from data. Traditionally these methods approximate the posterior over parameters by conditioning on data being inside an -ball around the observed data, which is only correct in the limit 0. Monte Carlo methods can then draw samples from the approximate posterior to approximate predictions or error bars on parameters. These algorithms critically slow down as 0, and in practice draw samples from a broader distribution than the posterior. We propose a new approach to likelihood-free inference based on Bayesian conditional density estimation. Preliminary inferences based on limited simulation data are used to guide later simulations. In some cases, learning an accurate parametric representation of the entire true posterior distribution requires fewer model simulations than Monte Carlo ABC methods need to produce a single sample from an approximate posterior.
Stochastic Structured Prediction under Bandit Feedback,Stochastic structured prediction under bandit feedback follows a learning protocol where on each of a sequence of iterations, the learner receives an input, predicts an output structure, and receives partial feedback in form of a task loss evaluation of the predicted structure. We present applications of this learning scenario to convex and non-convex objectives for structured prediction and analyze them as stochastic first-order methods. We present an experimental evaluation on problems of natural language processing over exponential output spaces, and compare convergence speed across different objectives under the practical criterion of optimal task performance on development data and the optimization-theoretic criterion of minimal squared gradient norm. Best results under both criteria are obtained for a non-convex objective for pairwise preference learning under bandit feedback.
Learning under uncertainty: a comparison between R-W and Bayesian approach,Accurately differentiating between what are truly unpredictably random and systematic changes that occur at random can have profound effect on affect and cognition. To examine the underlying computational principles that guide different learning behavior in an uncertain environment, we compared an R-W model and a Bayesian approach in a visual search task with different volatility levels. Both R-W model and the Bayesian approach reflected an individual's estimation of the environmental volatility, and there is a strong correlation between the learning rate in R-W model and the belief of stationarity in the Bayesian approach in different volatility conditions. In a low volatility condition, R-W model indicates that learning rate positively correlates with lose-shift rate, but not choice optimality (inverted U shape). The Bayesian approach indicates that the belief of environmental stationarity positively correlates with choice optimality, but not lose-shift rate (inverted U shape). In addition, we showed that comparing to Expert learners, individuals with high lose-shift rate (sub-optimal learners) had significantly higher learning rate estimated from R-W model and lower belief of stationarity from the Bayesian model.
Minimax Optimal Alternating Minimization for Kernel Nonparametric Tensor Learning,We investigate the statistical performance and computational efficiency of the  alternating minimization procedure for nonparametric tensor learning. Tensor modeling has been widely used for capturing the higher order relations between  multimodal data sources. In addition to a linear model,  a nonlinear tensor model has been received much attention recently because of its high flexibility. We consider  an alternating minimization procedure for  a general nonlinear model where the true function  consists of components in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS). In this paper, we show that the alternating minimization method achieves linear convergence as an optimization algorithm  and that the generalization error of the resultant estimator yields the minimax optimality. We apply our algorithm to some multitask learning problems and show that the method actually shows favorable performances.
On the Recursive Teaching Dimension of VC Classes,The recursive teaching dimension (RTD) of a concept class $C \subseteq \{0, 1\}^n$, introduced by Zilles et al. [ZLHZ11], is a complexity parameter measured by the worst-case number of labeled examples needed to learn any target concept of $C$ in the recursive teaching model. In this paper, we study the quantitative relation between RTD and the well-known learning complexity measure VC dimension (VCD), and improve the best known upper and (worst-case) lower bounds on the recursive teaching dimension with respect to the VC dimension.  Given a concept class $C \subseteq \{0, 1\}^n$ with $VCD(C) = d$, we first show that $RTD(C)$ is at most $d 2^{d+1}$. This is the first upper bound for $RTD(C)$ that depends only on $VCD(C)$, independent of the size of the concept class $|C|$ and its~domain size $n$. Before our work, the best known upper bound for $RTD(C)$ is $O(d 2^d \log \log |C|)$, obtained by Moran et al. [MSWY15]. We remove the $\log \log |C|$ factor.  We also improve the lower bound on the worst-case ratio of $RTD(C)$ to $VCD(C)$. We present a family of classes $\{ C_k \}_{k \ge 1}$ with $VCD(C_k) = 3k$ and $RTD(C_k)=5k$, which implies that the ratio of $RTD(C)$ to $VCD(C)$ in the worst case can be as large as $5/3$. Before our work, the largest ratio known was $3/2$ as obtained by Kuhlmann [Kuh99]. Since then, no finite concept class $C$ has been known to satisfy $RTD(C) > (3/2) VCD(C)$.
Dimension-Free Iteration Complexity of Finite Sum Optimization Problems,Many canonical machine learning problems boil down to a convex optimization problem with a finite sum structure. However, whereas much progress has been made in developing faster algorithms for this setting, the inherent limitations of these problems are not satisfactorily addressed by existing lower bounds. Indeed, current bounds focus on first-order optimization algorithms, and only apply in the often unrealistic regime where the number of iterations is less than $\cO(d/n)$ (where $d$ is the dimension and $n$ is the number of samples). In this work, we extend the framework of Arjevani et al. \cite{arjevani2015lower,arjevani2016iteration} to provide new lower bounds, which are dimension-free, and go beyond the assumptions of current bounds, thereby covering standard finite sum optimization methods, e.g., SAG, SAGA, SVRG, SDCA without duality, as well as stochastic coordinate-descent methods, such as SDCA and accelerated proximal SDCA.
f-GAN: Training Generative Neural Samplers using Variational Divergence Minimization,Generative neural networks are probabilistic models that implement sampling using feedforward neural networks: they take a random input vector and produce a sample from a probability distribution defined by the network weights. These models are expressive and allow efficient computation of samples and derivatives, but cannot be used for computing likelihoods or for marginalization. The generative-adversarial training method allows to train such models through the use of an auxiliary discriminative neural network. We show that the generative-adversarial approach is a special case of an existing more general variational divergence estimation approach. We show that any $f$-divergence can be used for training generative neural networks. We discuss the benefits of various choices of divergence functions on training complexity and the quality of the obtained generative models.
Low-Rank Regression with Tensor Responses,This paper proposes an efficient algorithm (HOLRR) to handle regression tasks where the outputs have a tensor structure. We formulate the regression problem as the minimization  of a least square criterion under a multilinear rank constraint, a difficult  non convex problem.  HOLRR computes efficiently an approximate solution of this problem, with solid theoretical guarantees. A kernel extension is also presented. Experiments on synthetic and real data show that HOLRR computes accurate solutions while being computationally very competitive.
Double Thompson Sampling for Dueling Bandits,In this paper, we propose a Double Thompson Sampling (D-TS) algorithm for dueling bandit problems. As its name suggests, D-TS selects both the first and the second candidates according to Thompson Sampling. Specifically, D-TS maintains a posterior distribution for the preference matrix, and chooses the pair of arms for comparison according to two sets of samples independently drawn from the posterior distribution. This simple algorithm applies to general Copeland dueling bandits, including Condorcet dueling bandits as its special case.  For general Copeland dueling bandits, we show that D-TS achieves $O(K^2 \log T)$ regret. Moreover, using a back substitution argument, we refine the regret to $O(K \log T + K^2 \log \log T)$ in Condorcet dueling bandits and many practical Copeland dueling bandits. In addition, we propose an enhancement of D-TS, referred to as D-TS+, that reduces the regret by carefully breaking ties. Experiments based on both synthetic and real-world data demonstrate that D-TS and D-TS$^+$ significantly improve the overall performance, in terms of regret and robustness.
Linear dynamical neural population models through nonlinear embeddings,A body of recent work in modeling neural activity focuses on recovering low- dimensional latent features that capture the statistical structure of large-scale neural populations. Most such approaches have focused on linear generative models, where inference is computationally tractable. Here, we propose fLDS, a general class of nonlinear generative models that permits the firing rate of each neuron to vary as an arbitrary smooth function of a latent, linear dynamical state. This extra flexibility allows the model to capture a richer set of neural variability than a purely linear model, but retains an easily visualizable low-dimensional latent space. To fit this class of non-conjugate models we propose a variational inference scheme, along with a novel approximate posterior capable of capturing rich temporal correlations across time. We show that our techniques permit inference in a wide class of generative models.We also show in application to two neural datasets that, compared to state-of-the-art neural population models, fLDS captures a much larger proportion of neural variability with a small number of latent dimensions, providing superior predictive performance and interpretability.
Regret Bounds for Non-decomposable Metrics with Missing Labels,We consider the problem of recommending relevant labels (items) for a given data point (user). In particular, we are interested in the practically important setting where the evaluation is with respect to non-decomposable (over labels) performance metrics like the $F_1$ measure, \emph{and} training data has missing labels. To this end, we propose a generic framework that given a performance metric $\Psi$, can devise a regularized objective function and a threshold such that all the values in the predicted score vector above and only above the threshold are selected to be positive.  We show that the regret or generalization error in the given metric $\Psi$ is bounded ultimately by estimation error of certain underlying parameters. In particular, we derive regret bounds under three popular settings: a) collaborative filtering, b) multilabel classification, and c) PU (positive-unlabeled) learning.  For each of the above problems, we can obtain precise non-asymptotic regret bound which is small even when a large fraction of labels is missing. Our empirical results on synthetic and benchmark datasets demonstrate that by explicitly modeling for missing labels and optimizing the desired performance metric, our algorithm indeed achieves significantly better performance (like $F_1$ score) when compared to methods that do not model missing label information carefully.
Dynamic matrix recovery from incomplete observations under an exact low-rank constraint,Low-rank matrix factorizations arise in a wide variety of applications -- including recommendation systems, topic models, and source separation, to name just a few.  In these and many other applications, it has been widely noted that by incorporating temporal information and allowing for the possibility of time-varying models, significant improvements are possible in practice. However, despite the reported superior empirical performance of these dynamic models over their static counterparts, there is limited theoretical justification for introducing these more complex models. In this paper we aim to address this gap by studying the problem of recovering a dynamically evolving low-rank matrix from incomplete observations. First, we propose the locally weighted matrix smoothing (LOWEMS) framework as one possible approach to dynamic matrix recovery. We then establish error bounds for LOWEMS in both the {\em matrix sensing} and {\em matrix completion} observation models. Our results quantify the potential benefits of exploiting dynamic constraints both in terms of recovery accuracy and sample complexity. To illustrate these benefits we provide both synthetic and real-world experimental results.
Rnyi Divergence Variational Inference,This paper introduces the variational Rnyi bound (VR) that extends traditional variational inference to Rnyi's alpha-divergences. This new family of variational methods unifies a number of existing approaches, and enables a smooth interpolation from the evidence lower-bound to the log (marginal) likelihood that is controlled by the value of alpha that parametrises the divergence. The reparameterization trick, Monte Carlo approximation and stochastic optimisation methods are deployed to obtain a tractable and unified framework for optimisation. We further consider negative alpha values and propose a novel variational inference method as a new special case in the proposed framework. Experiments on Bayesian neural networks and variational auto-encoders demonstrate the wide applicability of the VR bound.
Confusions over Time: An Interpretable Bayesian Model to Characterize Trends in Decision Making,We propose Confusions over Time (CoT), a novel generative framework which facilitates a multi-granular analysis of the decision making process. The CoT not only models the confusions or error properties of individual decision makers and their evolution over time, but also allows us to obtain diagnostic insights into the collective decision making process in an interpretable manner. To this end, the CoT models the confusions of the decision makers and their evolution over time via time-dependent confusion matrices. Interpretable insights are obtained by grouping similar decision makers (and items being judged) into clusters and representing each such cluster with an appropriate prototype and identifying the most important features characterizing the cluster via a subspace feature indicator vector. Experimentation with real world data on bail decisions, asthma treatments, and insurance policy approval decisions demonstrates that CoT can accurately model and explain the confusions of decision makers and their evolution over time.
Adaptive Averaging in Accelerated Descent Dynamics,We study accelerated descent dynamics for constrained convex optimization. This dynamics can be described naturally as a coupling of a dual variable accumulating gradients at a given rate $\eta(t)$, and a primal variable obtained as the weighted average of the mirrored dual trajectory, with weights $w(t)$. Using a Lyapunov argument, we give sufficient conditions on $\eta$ and $w$ to achieve a desired convergence rate. As an example, we show that the replicator dynamics (an example of mirror descent on the simplex) can be accelerated using a simple averaging scheme. We then propose an adaptive averaging heuristic which adaptively computes the weights to speed up the decrease of the Lyapunov function. We provide guarantees on adaptive averaging in continuous-time, prove that it preserves the quadratic convergence rate of accelerated first-order methods in discrete-time, and give numerical experiments to compare it with existing heuristics, such as adaptive restarting. The experiments indicate that adaptive averaging performs at least as well as adaptive restarting, with significant improvements in some cases.
Bayesian Optimization for Probabilistic Programs,We present the first general purpose framework for marginal maximum a posteriori estimation of probabilistic program variables. By using a series of code transformations, the evidence of any probabilistic program, and therefore of any graphical model, can be optimized with respect to an arbitrary subset of its sampled variables.  To carry out this optimization, we develop the first Bayesian optimization package to directly exploit the source code of its target, leading to innovations in problem-independent hyperpriors, unbounded optimization, and implicit constraint satisfaction; delivering significant performance improvements over prominent existing packages.  We present applications of our method to a number of tasks including engineering design and parameter optimization.
Efficient Globally Convergent Stochastic Optimization for Canonical Correlation Analysis,We study the stochastic optimization of canonical correlation analysis (CCA), whose objective is nonconvex and does not decouple over training samples. Although several stochastic gradient based optimization algorithms have been recently proposed to solve this problem, no global convergence guarantee was provided by any of them. Inspired by the alternating least squares/power iterations formulation of CCA, and the shift-and-invert preconditioning method for PCA, we propose two globally convergent meta-algorithms for CCA, both of which transform the original problem into sequences of least squares problems that need only be solved approximately. We instantiate the meta-algorithms with state-of-the-art SGD methods and obtain time complexities that significantly improve upon that of previous work. Experimental results demonstrate their superior performance.
A Unified Approach for Learning the Parameters of Sum-Product Networks,We present a unified approach for learning the parameters of Sum-Product networks (SPNs). We prove that any complete and decomposable SPN is equivalent to a mixture of trees where each tree corresponds to a product of univariate distributions. Based on the mixture model perspective, we characterize the objective function when learning SPNs based on the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) principle and show that the optimization problem can be formulated as a signomial program. We construct two parameter learning algorithms for SPNs by using sequential monomial approximations (SMA) and the concave-convex procedure (CCCP), respectively. The two proposed methods naturally admit multiplicative updates, hence effectively avoiding the projection operation. With the help of the unified framework, we also show that, in the case of SPNs, CCCP leads to the same algorithm as Expectation Maximization (EM) despite the fact that they are different in general.
Feature-distributed sparse regression: a screen-and-clean approach,Most existing approaches to distributed sparse regression assume the data is partitioned by samples. However, for high-dimensional data (D >> N), it is more natural to partition the data by features. We propose an algorithm to distributed sparse regression when the data is partitioned by features rather than samples. Our approach allows the user to tailor our general method to various distributed computing platforms by trading-off the total amount of data (in bits) sent over the communication network and the number of rounds of communication. We show that an implementation of our approach is capable of solving L1-regularized L2 regression problems with millions of features in minutes.
Backprop KF: Learning Discriminative Deterministic State Estimators,Generative state estimators based on probabilistic filters and smoothers are one of the most popular classes of state estimators for robots and autonomous vehicles. However, generative models have limited capacity to handle rich sensory observations, such as camera images, since they must model the entire distribution over sensor readings. Discriminative models do not suffer from this limitation, but are typically more complex to train as latent variable models for state estimation. We present an alternative approach where the parameters of the latent state distribution are directly optimized as a deterministic computation graph, resulting in a simple and effective gradient descent algorithm for training discriminative state estimators. We show that this procedure can be used to train state estimators that use complex input, such as raw camera images, which must be processed using expressive nonlinear function approximators such as convolutional neural networks. Our model can be viewed as a type of recurrent neural network, and the connection to probabilistic filtering allows us to design a network architecture that is particularly well suited for state estimation. We evaluate our approach on synthetic tracking task with raw image inputs and on the visual odometry task in the KITTI dataset. The results show significant improvement over both standard generative approaches and regular recurrent neural networks.
Swapout: Learning an ensemble of deep architectures,We describe Swapout, a new stochastic training method, that outperforms ResNets of identical network structure yielding impressive results on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100. Swapout samples from a rich set of architectures including dropout, stochastic depth and residual architectures as special cases. When viewed as a regularization method swapout not only inhibits co-adaptation of units in a layer, similar to dropout, but also across network layers. We conjecture that swapout achieves strong regularization by implicitly tying the parameters across layers. When viewed as an ensemble training method, it samples a much richer set of architectures than existing methods such as dropout or stochastic depth. We propose a parameterization that reveals connections to exiting architectures and suggests a much richer set of architectures to be explored. We show that our formulation suggests an efficient training method and validate our conclusions on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 matching state of the art accuracy. Remarkably, our 32 layer wider model performs similar to a 1001 layer ResNet model.
Assortment Optimization Under the Mallows model,We consider the assortment optimization problem when customer preferences follow a mixture of Mallows distributions. The assortment optimization problem focuses on determining the revenue/profit maximizing subset of products from a large universe of products; it is an important decision that is commonly faced by retailers in determining what to offer their customers. There are two key challenges: (a) the Mallows distribution lacks a closed-form expression (and requires summing an exponential number of terms) to compute the choice probability and, hence, the expected revenue/profit per customer; and (b) finding the best subset may require an exhaustive search. Our key contributions are an efficiently computable closed-form expression for the choice probability under the Mallows model and a compact mixed integer linear program (MIP) formulation for the assortment problem.
Operator Variational Inference,Variational inference is an umbrella term for algorithms which cast Bayesian inference as optimization. Classically, variational inference uses the Kullback-Leibler divergence to define the optimization. Though this divergence has been widely used, the resultant posterior approximation can suffer from undesirable statistical properties. To address this, we reexamine variational inference from its roots as an optimization problem. We use operators, or functions of functions, to design variational objectives. As one example, we design a variational objective with a Langevin-Stein operator. We develop a black box algorithm, operator variational inference (OPVI), for optimizing any operator objective. Importantly, operators enable us to make explicit the statistical and computational tradeoffs for variational inference. We can characterize different properties of variational objectives, such as objectives that admit data subsampling---allowing inference to scale to massive data---as well as objectives that admit variational programs---a rich class of posterior approximations that does not require a tractable density. We illustrate the benefits of OPVI on a mixture model and a generative model of images.
Select-and-Sample for Spike-and-Slab Sparse Coding,Probabilistic inference serves as a popular model for neural processing. It is still unclear, however, how approximate probabilistic inference can be accurate and scalable to very high-dimensional continuous latent spaces. Especially as typical posteriors for sensory data can be expected to exhibit complex latent dependencies including multiple modes. Here, we study an approach that can efficiently be scaled while maintaining a richly structured posterior approximation under these conditions. As example model we use spike-and-slab sparse coding for V1 processing, and combine latent subspace selection with Gibbs sampling (select-and-sample). Unlike factored variational approaches, the method can maintain large numbers of posterior modes and complex latent dependencies. Unlike pure sampling, the method is scalable to very high-dimensional latent spaces. Among all sparse coding approaches with non-trivial posterior approximations (MAP or ICA-like models), we report the largest-scale results. In applications we firstly verify the approach by showing competitiveness in standard denoising benchmarks. Secondly, we use its scalability to, for the first time, study highly-overcomplete settings for V1 encoding using sophisticated posterior representations. More generally, our study shows that very accurate probabilistic inference for multi-modal posteriors with complex dependencies is tractable, functionally desirable and consistent with models for neural inference.
Ladder Variational Autoencoders,Variational autoencoders are powerful models for unsupervised learning. However deep models with several layers of dependent stochastic variables are difficult to train which limits the improvements obtained using these highly expressive models. We propose a new inference model, the Ladder Variational Autoencoder, that recursively corrects the generative distribution by a data dependent approximate likelihood in a process resembling the recently proposed Ladder Network. We show that this model provides state of the art predictive log-likelihood and tighter log-likelihood lower bound compared to the purely bottom-up inference in layered Variational Autoencoders and other generative models. We provide a detailed analysis of the learned hierarchical latent representation and show that our new inference model is qualitatively different and utilizes a deeper more distributed hierarchy of latent variables. Finally, we observe that batch-normalization and deterministic warm-up (gradually turning on the KL-term) are crucial for training variational models with many stochastic layers.
SPALS: Fast Alternating Least Squares via Implicit Leverage Scores Sampling,Tensor CANDECOMP/PARAFAC (CP) decomposition is a powerful but computationally challenging tool in modern data analytics. In this paper, we show ways of sampling intermediate steps of alternating minimization algorithms for computing low rank tensor CP decompositions, leading to the sparse alternating least squares (SPALS) method. Specifically, we sample the the Khatri-Rao product, which arises as an intermediate object during the iterations of alternating least squares. This product captures the interactions between different tensor modes, and form the main computational bottleneck for solving many tensor related tasks. By exploiting the spectral structures of the matrix Khatri-Rao product, we provide efficient access to its statistical leverage scores. When applied to the tensor CP decomposition, our method leads to the first algorithm that runs in sublinear time per-iteration and approximates the output of deterministic alternating least squares algorithms. Empirical evaluations of this approach show significantly speedups over existing randomized and deterministic routines for performing CP decomposition. On a tensor of the size 2.4m by 6.6m by 92k with over 2 billion nonzeros formed by Amazon product reviews, our routine converges in two minutes to the same error as deterministic ALS.
CRF-CNN: Modeling Structured Information in Human Pose Estimation,Deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) have achieved great success. On the other hand, modeling structural information has been proved critical in many vision problems. It is of great interest to integrate them effectively. In a classical neural network, there is no message passing between neurons in the same layer. In this paper, we propose a CRF-CNN framework which can simultaneously model structural information in both output and hidden feature layers in a probabilistic way, and it is applied to human pose estimation. A message passing scheme is proposed, so that in various layers each body joint receives messages from all the others in an efficient way. Such message passing can be implemented with convolution between features maps in the same layer, and it is also integrated with feedforward propagation in neural networks. Finally, a neural network implementation of end-to-end learning CRF-CNN is provided. Its effectiveness is demonstrated through experiments on two benchmark datasets.
A Consistent Regularization Approach for Structured Prediction,We propose and analyze a regularization approach for structured prediction problems. We characterize a large class of loss functions that allows to naturally embed structured outputs in a linear space.  We exploit this fact to  design learning  algorithms using a surrogate loss approach and regularization techniques.   We prove universal consistency and finite sample bounds characterizing the generalization properties of the proposed method. Experimental results are provided to demonstrate the practical usefulness of the proposed approach.
Refined Lower Bounds for Adversarial Bandits,We provide new lower bounds on the regret that must be suffered by adversarial bandit algorithms. The new results show that recent upper bounds that either (a) hold with high-probability or (b) depend on the total loss of the best arm or (c) depend on the quadratic variation of the losses, are close to tight. Besides this we prove two impossibility results. First, the existence of a single arm that is optimal in every round cannot improve the regret in the worst case. Second, the regret cannot scale with the effective range of the losses. In contrast, both results are possible in the full-information setting.
Learning Deep Embeddings with Histogram Loss,We suggest a new loss for learning deep embeddings. The key characteristics of the new loss is the absence of tunable parameters and very good results obtained across a range of datasets and problems. The loss is computed by estimating two distribution of similarities for positive (matching) and negative (non-matching) point pairs, and then computing the probability of a positive pair to have a lower similarity score than a negative pair based on these probability estimates. We show that these operations can be performed in a simple and piecewise-differentiable manner using 1D histograms with soft assignment operations. This makes the proposed loss suitable for learning deep embeddings using stochastic optimization. The experiments reveal favourable results compared to recently proposed loss functions.
Kernel Bayesian Inference with Posterior Regularization,We propose a vector-valued regression problem whose solution is equivalent to the reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) embedding of the Bayesian posterior distribution. This equivalence provides a new understanding of kernel Bayesian inference. Moreover, the optimization problem induces a new regularization for the posterior embedding estimator, which is faster and has comparable performance to the squared regularization in kernel Bayes' rule. This regularization coincides with a former thresholding approach used in kernel POMDPs whose consistency remains to be established. Our theoretical work solves this open problem and provides consistency analysis in regression settings. Based on our optimizational formulation, we propose a flexible Bayesian posterior regularization framework which for the first time enables us to put regularization at the distribution level. We apply this method to nonparametric state-space filtering tasks with extremely nonlinear dynamics and show performance gains over all other baselines.
Learning Influence Functions from Incomplete Observations,We study the problem of learning influence functions under incomplete observations of node activations. Incomplete observations are a major concern as most (online and real-world) social networks are not fully observable. We establish both proper and improper PAC learnability of influence functions under randomly missing observations. Proper PAC learnability under the Discrete-Time Linear Threshold (DLT) and Discrete-Time Independent Cascade (DIC) models is established by reducing incomplete observations to complete observations in a modified graph. Our improper PAC learnability result applies for the DLT and DIC models as well as the Continuous-Time Independent Cascade (CIC) model.  It is based on a parametrization in terms of reachability features, and also gives rise to an efficient and practical heuristic. Experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate the ability of our method to compensate even for a fairly large fraction of missing observations.
General Tensor Spectral Co-clustering for Higher-Order Data,Spectral clustering and co-clustering are well-known techniques in data analysis, and recent work has extended spectral clustering to square, symmetric tensors and hypermatrices derived from a network.  We develop a new tensor spectral co-clustering method that simultaneously clusters the rows, columns, and slices of a nonnegative three-mode tensor and generalizes to tensors with any number of modes.  The algorithm is based on a new random walk model which we call the super-spacey random surfer.  We show that our method out-performs state-of-the-art co-clustering methods on several synthetic datasets with ground truth clusters and then use the algorithm to analyze several real-world datasets.
Bayesian latent structure discovery from multi-neuron recordings,Neural circuits contain heterogeneous groups of neurons that differ in type, location, connectivity, and basic response properties. However, traditional methods for dimensionality reduction and clustering are ill-suited to recovering the structure underlying the organization of neural circuits. In particular, they do not take advantage of the rich temporal dependencies in multi-neuron recordings and fail to account for the noise in neural spike trains. Here we describe new tools for inferring latent structure from simultaneously recorded spike train data using a hierarchical extension of a multi-neuron point process model commonly known as the generalized linear model (GLM). Our approach combines the GLM with flexible graph-theoretic priors governing the relationship between latent features and neural connectivity patterns. Fully Bayesian inference via Plya-gamma augmentation of the resulting model allows us to classify neurons and infer latent dimensions of circuit organization from correlated spike trains.  We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method with applications to synthetic data and multi-neuron recordings in primate retina, revealing latent patterns of neural types and locations from spike trains alone.
Estimating the Size of a Large Network and its Communities from a Random Sample,Most real-world networks are too large to be measured or studied directly and there is substantial interest in estimating global network properties from smaller sub-samples. One of the most important global properties is the number of vertices/nodes in the network. Estimating the number of vertices in a large network is a major challenge in computer science, epidemiology, demography, and intelligence analysis. In this paper we consider a population random graph G = (V;E) from the stochastic block model (SBM) with K communities/blocks. A sample is obtained by randomly choosing a subset W and letting G(W) be the induced subgraph in G of the vertices in W. In addition to G(W), we observe the total degree of each sampled vertex and its block membership. Given this partial information, we propose an efficient PopULation Size Estimation algorithm, called PULSE, that accurately estimates the size of the whole population as well as the size of each community. To support our theoretical analysis, we perform an exhaustive set of experiments to study the effects of sample size, K, and SBM model parameters on the accuracy of the estimates. The experimental results also demonstrate that PULSE significantly outperforms a widely-used method called the network scale-up estimator in a wide variety of scenarios.
Wasserstein Training of Restricted Boltzmann Machines,Boltzmann machines are able to learn highly complex, multimodal, structured and multiscale real-world data distributions. Parameters of the model are usually learned by minimizing the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence from training samples to the learned model. We propose in this work a novel approach for Boltzmann machine training which assumes that a meaningful metric between observations is given. This metric can be represented by the Wasserstein distance between distributions, for which we derive a gradient with respect to the model parameters. Minimization of this new objective leads to generative models with different statistical properties. We demonstrate their practical potential on data completion and denoising, for which the metric between observations plays a crucial role.
Deep ADMM-Net for Compressive Sensing MRI,Compressive Sensing (CS) is an effective approach for fast Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). It aims at reconstructing MR image from a small number of  under-sampled data in k-space, and accelerating the data acquisition in MRI.  To improve the current MRI system in reconstruction accuracy and computational speed,  in this paper, we propose a novel deep architecture, dubbed ADMM-Net.  ADMM-Net is defined over a data flow graph, which is derived from the iterative  procedures in Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) algorithm for optimizing a CS-based MRI model. In the training phase, all parameters of the net, e.g., image transforms, shrinkage functions, etc., are discriminatively trained end-to-end using L-BFGS algorithm. In the testing phase, it has computational overhead similar to ADMM but uses optimized parameters learned from the  training data for CS-based reconstruction task. Experiments on MRI image  reconstruction under different sampling ratios in k-space demonstrate that it significantly improves the baseline ADMM algorithm and achieves high reconstruction  accuracies with fast computational speed.
Maximization of Approximately Submodular Functions,We study the problem of maximizing a function that is approximately submodular under a cardinality constraint. Approximate submodularity implicitly appears in a wide range of applications as in many cases errors in evaluation of a submodular function break submodularity. Say that $F$ is $\eps$-approximately submodular if there exists a submodular function $f$ such that $(1-\eps)f(S) \leq F(S)\leq (1+\eps)f(S)$ for all subsets $S$. We are interested in characterizing the query-complexity of maximizing $F$ subject to a cardinality constraint $k$ as a function of the error level $\eps > 0$.  We provide both lower and upper bounds: for $\eps > n^{-1/2}$ we show an exponential query-complexity lower bound.  In contrast, when $\eps < {1}/{k}$ or under a stronger bounded curvature assumption, we give constant approximation algorithms.
Combining Low-Density Separators with CNNs,This work explores CNNs for the recognition of novel categories from few examples. Inspired by the transferability analysis of CNNs, we introduce an additional unsupervised meta-training stage that exposes multiple top layer units to a large amount of unlabeled real-world images. By encouraging these units to learn diverse sets of low-density separators across the unlabeled data, we capture a more generic, richer description of the visual world, which decouples these units from ties to a specific set of categories. We propose an unsupervised margin maximization that jointly estimates compact high-density regions and infers low-density separators. The low-density separator (LDS) modules can be plugged into any or all of the top layers of a standard CNN architecture. The resulting CNNs, with enhanced generality, significantly improve the performance in scene classification, fine-grained recognition, and action recognition with small training samples.
Learning Sensor Multiplexing Design through Back-propagation,Recent progress on many imaging and vision tasks has been driven by the use of deep feed-forward neural networks, which are trained by propagating gradients of a loss defined on the final output, back through the network up to the first layer that operates directly on the image. We propose back-propagating one step further---to learn camera sensor designs jointly with networks that carry out inference on the images they capture. In this paper, we specifically consider the design and inference problems in a typical color camera---where the sensor is able to measure only one color channel at each pixel location, and computational inference is required to reconstruct a full color image. We learn the camera sensor's color multiplexing pattern by encoding it as layer whose learnable weights determine which color channel, from among a fixed set, will be measured at each location. These weights are jointly trained with those of a reconstruction network that operates on the corresponding sensor measurements to produce a full color image. Our network achieves significant improvements in accuracy over the traditional Bayer pattern used in most color cameras. It automatically learns to employ a sparse color measurement approach similar to that of a recent design, and moreover, improves upon that design by learning an optimal layout for these measurements.
High resolution neural connectivity from incomplete tracing data using nonnegative spline regression,Whole-brain neural connectivity data are now available from viral tracing experiments, which reveal the connections between a source injection site and elsewhere in the brain. These hold the promise of revealing spatial patterns of connectivity throughout the mammalian brain. To achieve this goal, we seek to fit a weighted, nonnegative adjacency matrix among 100 m brain voxels using viral tracer data. Despite a multi-year experimental effort, injections provide incomplete coverage, and the number of voxels in our data is orders of magnitude larger than the number of injections, making the problem severely underdetermined. Furthermore, projection data are missing within the injection site because local connections there are not separable from the injection signal.  We use a novel machine-learning algorithm to meet these challenges and develop a spatially explicit, voxel-scale connectivity map of the mouse visual system. Our method combines three features: a matrix completion loss for missing data, a smoothing spline penalty to regularize the problem, and (optionally) a low rank factorization. We demonstrate the consistency of our estimator using synthetic data and then apply it to newly available Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas data for the visual system. Our algorithm is significantly more predictive than current state of the art approaches which assume regions to be homogeneous. We demonstrate the efficacy of a low rank version on visual cortex data and discuss the possibility of extending this to a whole-brain connectivity matrix at the voxel scale.
Learning a Probabilistic Latent Space of Object Shapes via 3D Generative-Adversarial Modeling,We study the problem of 3D object generation. We propose a novel framework, namely 3D Generative Adversarial Network (3D-GAN), which generates 3D objects from a probabilistic space by leveraging recent advances in volumetric convolutional networks and generative adversarial nets. The benefits of our model are three-fold: first, the use of an adversarial criterion, instead of traditional heuristic criteria, enables the generator to capture object structure implicitly and to synthesize high-quality 3D objects; second, the generator establishes a mapping from a low-dimensional probabilistic space to the space of 3D objects, so that we can sample objects without a reference image or CAD models, and explore the 3D object manifold; third, the adversarial discriminator provides a powerful 3D shape descriptor which, learned without supervision, has wide applications in 3D object recognition. Experiments demonstrate that our method generates high-quality 3D objects, and our unsupervisedly learned features achieve impressive performance on 3D object recognition, comparable with those of supervised learning methods.
Learning Sparse Gaussian Graphical Models with Overlapping Blocks,We present a novel framework, called GRAB (GRaphical models with overlApping Blocks), to capture densely connected components in a network estimate. GRAB takes as input a data matrix of p variables and n samples, and jointly learns both a network among p variables and densely connected groups of variables (called `blocks'). GRAB has four major novelties as compared to existing network estimation methods: 1) It does not require the blocks to be given a priori. 2) Blocks can overlap. 3) It can jointly learn a network structure and overlapping blocks. 4) It solves a joint optimization problem with the block coordinate descent method that is convex in each step. We show that GRAB reveals the underlying network structure substantially better than four state-of-the-art competitors on synthetic data. When applied to cancer gene expression data, GRAB outperforms its competitors in revealing known functional gene sets and potentially novel genes that drive cancer.
Multi-step learning and underlying structure in statistical models,In multi-step learning, where a final learning task is accomplished via a sequence of intermediate learning tasks, the intuition is that successive steps or levels transform the initial data into representations more and more ``suited" to the final learning task. A related principle arises in transfer-learning where Baxter (2000) proposed a theoretical framework to study how learning multiple tasks transforms the inductive bias of a learner. The most widespread multi-step learning approach is semi-supervised learning with two steps: unsupervised, then supervised. Several authors (Castelli-Cover, 1996; Balcan-Blum, 2005; Niyogi, 2008; Ben-David et al, 2008; Urner et al, 2011) have analyzed SSL, with Balcan-Blum (2005) proposing a version of the PAC learning framework augmented by a ``compatibility function" to link concept class and unlabeled data distribution. We propose to analyze SSL and other multi-step learning approaches, much in the spirit of Baxter's framework, by defining a learning problem generatively as a joint statistical model on $X \times Y$. This determines in a natural way the class of conditional distributions that are possible with each marginal, and amounts to an abstract form of compatibility function. It also allows to analyze both discrete and non-discrete settings. As tool for our analysis, we define a notion of $\gamma$-uniform shattering for statistical models. We use this to give conditions on the marginal and conditional models which imply an advantage for multi-step learning approaches. In particular, we recover a more general version of a result of Poggio et al (2012): under mild hypotheses a multi-step approach which learns features invariant under successive factors of a finite group of invariances has sample complexity requirements that are additive rather than multiplicative in the size of the subgroups.
Dynamic Network Surgery for Efficient DNNs,Deep learning has become a ubiquitous technology to improve machine intelligence. However, most of the existing deep models are structurally very complex, making them difficult to be deployed on the mobile platforms with limited computational power. In this paper, we propose a novel network compression method called dynamic network surgery, which can remarkably reduce the network complexity by making on-the-fly connection pruning. Unlike the previous methods which accomplish this task in a greedy way, we properly incorporate connection splicing into the whole process to avoid incorrect pruning and make it as a continual network maintenance. The effectiveness of our method is proved with experiments. Without any accuracy loss, our method can efficiently compress the number of parameters in LeNet-5 and AlexNet by a factor of $\bm{108}\times$ and $\bm{17.7}\times$ respectively, proving that it outperforms the recent pruning method by considerable margins. Code and some models are available at https://github.com/yiwenguo/Dynamic-Network-Surgery.
Active Nearest-Neighbor Learning in Metric Spaces,We propose a pool-based non-parametric active learning algorithm for general metric spaces, called MArgin Regularized Metric Active Nearest Neighbor (MARMANN), which outputs a nearest-neighbor classifier. We give prediction error guarantees that depend on the noisy-margin properties of the input sample, and are competitive with those obtained by previously proposed passive learners. We prove that the label complexity of MARMANN is significantly lower than that of any passive learner with similar error guarantees. Our algorithm is based on a generalized sample compression scheme and a new label-efficient active model-selection procedure.
Discriminative Gaifman Models,We present discriminative Gaifman models, a novel family of relational machine learning models. Gaifman models learn feature representations bottom up from representations of locally connected and bounded-size regions of knowledge bases (KBs).  Considering local and bounded-size neighborhoods of knowledge bases renders logical inference and learning tractable, mitigates the problem of overfitting, and facilitates weight sharing. Gaifman models sample neighborhoods of knowledge bases so as to make the learned relational models more robust to missing objects and relations which is a common situation in open-world KBs. We present the core ideas of Gaifman models and apply them to large-scale relational learning problems. We also discuss the ways in which Gaifman models relate to some existing relational machine learning approaches.
Professor Forcing: A New Algorithm for Training Recurrent Networks,The Teacher Forcing algorithm trains recurrent networks by supplying observed sequence values as inputs during training and using the networks own one-step-ahead predictions to do multi-step sampling. We introduce the Professor Forcing algorithm, which uses adversarial domain adaptation to encourage the dynamics of the recurrent network to be the same when training the network and when sampling from the network over multiple time steps. We apply Professor Forcing to language modeling, vocal synthesis on raw waveforms, handwriting generation, and image generation. Empirically we find that Professor Forcing acts as a regularizer, improving test likelihood on character level Penn Treebank and sequential MNIST. We also find that the model qualitatively improves samples, especially when sampling for a large number of time steps.  This is supported by human evaluation of sample quality.  Trade-offs between Professor Forcing and Scheduled Sampling are discussed. We produce T-SNEs showing that Professor Forcing successfully makes the dynamics of the network during training and sampling more similar.
Pruning Random Forests for Prediction on a Budget,We propose to prune a random forest (RF) for resource-constrained prediction. We first construct a RF and then prune it to optimize expected feature cost & accuracy. We pose pruning RFs as a novel 0-1 integer program with linear constraints that encourages feature re-use. We establish total unimodularity of the constraint set to prove that the corresponding LP relaxation solves the original integer program. We then exploit connections to combinatorial optimization and develop an efficient primal-dual algorithm, scalable to large datasets. In contrast to our bottom-up approach, which benefits from good RF initialization, conventional methods are top-down acquiring features based on their utility value and is generally intractable, requiring heuristics.  Empirically, our pruning algorithm outperforms existing state-of-the-art resource-constrained algorithms.
Multistage Campaigning in Social Networks,We consider control problems for multi-stage campaigning over social networks. The dynamic programming framework is employed to balance the high present reward and large penalty on low future outcome in the presence of extensive uncertainties. In particular, we establish theoretical foundations of optimal campaigning over social networks where the user activities are modeled as a multivariate Hawkes process, and we derive a time dependent linear relation between the intensity of exogenous events and several commonly used objective functions of campaigning. We further develop a convex dynamic programming framework for determining the optimal intervention policy that prescribes the required level of external drive at each stage for the desired campaigning result. Experiments on both synthetic data and the real-world MemeTracker dataset show that our algorithm can steer the user activities for optimal campaigning much more accurately than baselines.
Coevolutionary Latent Feature Processes for Continuous-Time User-Item Interactions,Matching users to the right items at the right time is a fundamental task in recommendation systems. As users interact with different items over time, users' and items' feature may evolve and co-evolve over time. Traditional models based on static latent features or discretizing time into epochs can become ineffective for capturing the fine-grained temporal dynamics in the user-item interactions. We propose a coevolutionary latent feature process model that accurately captures the coevolving nature of users' and items' feature. To learn parameters, we design an efficient convex optimization algorithm with a novel low rank space sharing constraints. Extensive experiments on diverse real-world datasets demonstrate significant improvements in user behavior prediction compared to state-of-the-arts.
Coordinate-wise Power Method,In this paper, we propose a coordinate-wise version of the power method from an optimization viewpoint. The vanilla power method simultaneously updates all the coordinates of the iterate, which is essential for its convergence analysis. However, different coordinates converge to the optimal value at different speeds. Our proposed algorithm, which we call coordinate-wise power method, is able to select and update the most important k coordinates in O(kn) time at each iteration, where n is the dimension of the matrix and k <= n is the size of the active set. Inspired by the ''greedy'' nature of our method, we further propose a greedy coordinate descent algorithm applied on a non-convex objective function specialized for symmetric matrices. We provide convergence analyses for both methods. Experimental results on both synthetic and real data show that our methods achieve up to 20 times speedup over the basic power method. Meanwhile, due to their coordinate-wise nature, our methods are very suitable for the important case when data cannot fit into memory. Finally, we introduce how the coordinate-wise mechanism could be applied to other iterative methods that are used in machine learning.
Barzilai-Borwein Step Size for Stochastic Gradient Descent,One of the major issues in stochastic gradient descent (SGD) methods is how to choose an appropriate step size while running the algorithm. Since the traditional line search technique does not apply for stochastic optimization methods, the common practice in SGD is either to use a diminishing step size, or to tune a step size by hand, which can be time consuming in practice. In this paper, we propose to use the Barzilai-Borwein (BB) method to automatically compute step sizes for SGD and its variant: stochastic variance reduced gradient (SVRG) method, which leads to two algorithms: SGD-BB and SVRG-BB. We prove that SVRG-BB converges linearly for strongly convex objective functions. As a by-product, we prove the linear convergence result of SVRG with Option I proposed in [10], whose convergence result has been missing in the literature. Numerical experiments on standard data sets show that the performance of SGD-BB and SVRG-BB is comparable to and sometimes even better than SGD and SVRG with best-tuned step sizes, and is superior to some advanced SGD variants.
Fast learning rates with heavy-tailed losses,We study fast learning rates when the losses are not necessarily bounded and may have a distribution with heavy tails. To enable such analyses, we introduce two new conditions: (i)  the envelope function $\sup_{f \in \mathcal{F}}|\ell \circ f|$, where $\ell$ is the loss function and $\mathcal{F}$ is the hypothesis class, exists and is $L^r$-integrable, and (ii) $\ell$ satisfies the multi-scale Bernstein's condition on $\mathcal{F}$. Under these assumptions, we prove that learning rate faster than $O(n^{-1/2})$ can be obtained and, depending on $r$ and the multi-scale Bernstein's powers, can be arbitrarily close to $O(n^{-1})$. We then verify these assumptions and derive fast learning rates for the problem of vector quantization by $k$-means clustering with heavy-tailed distributions. The analyses enable us to obtain novel learning rates that extend and complement existing results in the literature from both theoretical and practical viewpoints.
CliqueCNN: Deep Unsupervised Exemplar Learning,Exemplar learning is a powerful paradigm for discovering visual similarities in an unsupervised manner. In this context, however, the recent breakthrough in deep learning could not yet unfold its full potential. With only a single positive sample, a great imbalance between one positive and many negatives, and unreliable relationships between most samples, training of convolutional neural networks is impaired. Given weak estimates of local distance we propose a single optimization problem to extract batches of samples with mutually consistent relations. Conflicting relations are distributed over different batches and similar samples are grouped into compact cliques. Learning exemplar similarities is framed as a sequence of clique categorization tasks. The CNN then consolidates transitivity relations within and between cliques and learns a single representation for all samples without the need for labels. The proposed unsupervised approach has shown competitive performance on detailed posture analysis and object classification.
Guided Policy Search via Approximate Mirror Descent,Guided policy search algorithms can be used to optimize complex nonlinear policies, such as deep neural networks, without directly computing policy gradients in the high-dimensional parameter space. Instead, these methods use supervised learning to train the policy to mimic a teacher algorithm, such as a trajectory optimizer or a trajectory-centric reinforcement learning method. Guided policy search methods provide asymptotic local convergence guarantees by construction, but it is not clear how much the policy improves within a small, finite number of iterations. We show that guided policy search algorithms can be interpreted as an approximate variant of mirror descent, where the projection onto the constraint manifold is not exact. We derive a new guided policy search algorithm that is simpler and provides appealing improvement and convergence guarantees in simplified convex and linear settings, and show that in the more general nonlinear setting, the error in the projection step can be bounded. We provide empirical results on several simulated robotic manipulation tasks that show that our method is stable and achieves similar or better performance when compared to prior guided policy search methods, with a simpler formulation and fewer hyperparameters.
Structured Sparse Regression via Greedy Hard Thresholding,Several learning applications require solving high-dimensional regression problems where the relevant features belong to a small number of (overlapping) groups. For very large datasets and under standard sparsity constraints, hard thresholding methods have proven to be extremely efficient, but such methods require NP hard projections when dealing with overlapping groups. In this paper, we show that such NP-hard projections can not only be avoided by appealing to submodular optimization, but such methods come with strong theoretical guarantees even in the presence of poorly conditioned data (i.e. say when two features have correlation  $\geq 0.99$), which existing analyses cannot handle. These methods exhibit an interesting computation-accuracy trade-off and can be extended to significantly harder problems such as sparse overlapping groups. Experiments on both real and synthetic data validate our claims and demonstrate that the proposed methods are orders of magnitude faster than other greedy and convex relaxation techniques for learning with group-structured sparsity.
Learning in Games: Robustness of Fast Convergence,We show that learning algorithms satisfying a low approximate regret property experience fast convergence to approximate optimality in a large class of repeated games. Our property, which simply requires that each learner has small regret compared to a (1+eps)-multiplicative approximation to the best action in hindsight, is ubiquitous among learning algorithms; it is satisfied even by the vanilla Hedge forecaster. Our results improve upon recent work of Syrgkanis et al. in a number of ways. We require only that players observe payoffs under other players' realized actions, as opposed to expected payoffs. We further show that convergence occurs with high probability, and show convergence under bandit feedback. Finally, we improve upon the speed of convergence by a factor of n, the number of players. Both the scope of settings and the class of algorithms for which our analysis provides fast convergence are considerably broader than in previous work. Our framework applies to dynamic population games via a low approximate regret property for shifting experts. Here we strengthen the results of Lykouris et al. in two ways: We allow players to select learning algorithms from a larger class, which includes a minor variant of the basic Hedge algorithm, and we increase the maximum churn in players for which approximate optimality is achieved. In the bandit setting we present a new algorithm which provides a "small loss"-type bound with improved dependence on the number of actions in utility settings, and is both simple and efficient. This result may be of independent interest.
Measuring the reliability of MCMC inference with bidirectional Monte Carlo,Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) is one of the main workhorses of probabilistic inference, but it is notoriously hard to measure the quality of approximate posterior samples. This challenge is particularly salient in black box inference methods, which can hide details and obscure inference failures. In this work, we extend the recently introduced bidirectional Monte Carlo technique to evaluate MCMC-based posterior inference algorithms. By running annealed importance sampling (AIS) chains both from prior to posterior and vice versa on simulated data, we upper bound in expectation the symmetrized KL divergence between the true posterior distribution and the distribution of approximate samples. We integrate our method into two probabilistic programming languages, WebPPL and Stan, and validate it on several models and datasets. As an example of how our method be used to guide the design of inference algorithms, we apply it to study the effectiveness of different model representations in WebPPL and Stan.
Average-case hardness of RIP certification,The restricted isometry property (RIP) for design matrices gives guarantees for optimal recovery in sparse linear models.  It is of high interest in compressed sensing and statistical learning. This property is particularly important for computationally efficient recovery methods. As a consequence, even though it is in general NP-hard to check that RIP holds, there have been substantial efforts to find tractable proxies for it.  These would allow the construction of RIP matrices and the polynomial-time verification of RIP given an arbitrary matrix. We consider the framework of average-case certifiers, that never wrongly declare that a matrix is RIP, while being often correct for random instances. While there are such functions which are tractable in a suboptimal parameter regime, we show that this is a computationally hard task in any better regime.  Our results are based on a new, weaker assumption on the problem of detecting dense subgraphs.
Provable Efficient Online Matrix Completion via Non-convex Stochastic Gradient Descent,Matrix completion, where we wish to recover a low rank matrix by observing a few entries from it, is a widely studied problem in both theory and practice with wide applications. Most of the provable algorithms so far on this problem have been restricted to the offline setting where they provide an estimate of the unknown matrix using all observations simultaneously. However, in many applications, the online version, where we observe one entry at a time and dynamically update our estimate, is more appealing. While existing algorithms are efficient for the offline setting, they could be highly inefficient for the online setting.  In this paper, we propose the first provable, efficient online algorithm for matrix completion. Our algorithm starts from an initial estimate of the matrix and then performs non-convex stochastic gradient descent (SGD). After every observation, it performs a fast update involving only one row of two tall matrices, giving near linear total runtime. Our algorithm can be naturally used in the offline setting as well, where it gives competitive sample complexity and runtime to state of the art algorithms. Our proofs introduce a general framework to show that SGD updates tend to stay away from saddle surfaces and could be of broader interests to other non-convex problems.
Infinite Hidden Semi-Markov Modulated Interaction Point Process,The correlation between events is ubiquitous and important for temporal events modelling. In many cases, the correlation exists between not only events' emitted observations, but also their arrival times. State space models (e.g., hidden Markov model) and stochastic interaction point process models (e.g., Hawkes process) have been studied extensively yet separately for the two types of correlations in the past. In this paper, we propose a Bayesian nonparametric approach that considers both types of correlations via unifying and generalizing hidden semi-Markov model and interaction point process model. The proposed approach can simultaneously model both the observations and arrival times of temporal events, and determine the number of latent states from data. A Metropolis-within-particle-Gibbs sampler with ancestor resampling is developed for efficient posterior inference. The approach is tested on both synthetic and real-world data with promising outcomes.
Linear Contextual Bandits with Knapsacks,We consider the linear contextual bandit problem with resource consumption, in addition to reward generation. In each round, the outcome of pulling an arm is a reward as well as a vector of resource consumptions. The expected values of these outcomes depend linearly on the context of that arm. The budget/capacity constraints require that the sum of these vectors doesn't exceed the budget in each dimension. The objective is once again to maximize the total reward. This problem turns out to be a common generalization of classic linear contextual bandits  (linContextual),  bandits with knapsacks (BwK), and the online stochastic packing problem (OSPP). We present algorithms with near-optimal regret bounds for this problem. Our bounds compare favorably to results on the unstructured version of the problem, where the relation between the contexts and the outcomes could be arbitrary, but the algorithm only competes against a fixed set of policies accessible through  an optimization oracle. We combine techniques from the work on linContextual, BwK and OSPP in a nontrivial manner while also tackling new difficulties that are not present in any of these special cases.
Selective inference for group-sparse linear models,We develop tools for selective inference in the setting of group sparsity, including the construction of confidence intervals and p-values for testing selected groups of variables. Our main technical result gives the precise distribution of the magnitude of the projection of the data onto a given subspace, and enables us to develop inference procedures for a broad class of group-sparse selection methods, including the group lasso, iterative hard thresholding, and forward stepwise regression. We give numerical results to illustrate these tools on simulated data and on health record data.
Deep Neural Networks with Inexact Matching for Person Re-Identification,Person Re-Identification is the task of matching images of a person across multiple camera views. Almost all prior approaches address this challenge by attempting to learn the possible transformations that relate the different views of a person from a training corpora. Then, they utilize these transformation patterns for matching a query image to those in a gallery image bank at test time. This necessitates learning good feature representations of the images and having a robust feature matching technique. Deep learning approaches, such as Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), simultaneously do both and have shown great promise recently. In this work, we propose two CNN-based architectures for Person Re-Identification. In the first, given a pair of images, we extract feature maps from these images via multiple stages of convolution and pooling. A novel inexact matching technique then matches pixels in the first representation with those of the second. Furthermore, we search across a wider region in the second representation for matching. Our novel matching technique allows us to tackle the challenges posed by large viewpoint variations, illumination changes or partial occlusions. Our approach shows a promising performance and requires only about half the parameters as a current state-of-the-art technique. Nonetheless, it also suffers from false matches at times. In order to mitigate this issue, we propose a fused architecture that combines our inexact matching pipeline with a state-of-the-art exact matching technique. We observe substantial gains with the fused model over the current state-of-the-art on multiple challenging datasets of varying sizes, with gains of up to about 21%.
Accelerating Stochastic Composition Optimization,Consider the stochastic composition optimization problem where the objective is a composition of two expected-value functions. We propose a new stochastic first-order method, namely the accelerated stochastic compositional proximal gradient (ASC-PG) method, which updates based on queries to the sampling oracle using two different timescales. The ASC-PG is the first proximal gradient method for the stochastic composition problem that can deal with nonsmooth regularization penalty. We show that the ASC-PG exhibits faster convergence than the best known algorithms, and that it achieves the optimal sample-error complexity in several important special cases. We further demonstrate the application of ASC-PG to reinforcement learning  and conduct numerical experiments.
Learning Bound for Parameter Transfer Learning,We consider a transfer-learning problem by using the parameter transfer approach, where a suitable parameter of feature mapping is learned through one task and applied to another objective task. Then, we introduce the notion of the local stability of parametric feature mapping and  parameter transfer learnability, and thereby derive a learning bound for parameter transfer algorithms. As an application of parameter transfer learning, we discuss the performance of sparse coding in self-taught learning. Although self-taught learning algorithms with plentiful unlabeled data often show excellent empirical performance, their theoretical analysis has not been studied. In this paper, we also provide the first theoretical learning bound for self-taught learning.
Can Active Memory Replace Attention?,Several mechanisms to focus attention of a neural network on selected parts of its input or memory have been used successfully in deep learning models in recent years. Attention has improved image classification, image captioning, speech recognition, generative models, and learning algorithmic tasks, but it had probably the largest impact on neural machine translation.  Recently, similar improvements have been obtained using  alternative mechanisms that do not focus on a single part of a memory but operate on all of it in parallel, in a uniform way. Such mechanism, which we call active memory, improved over attention in algorithmic tasks, image processing, and in generative modelling.  So far, however, active memory has not improved over attention for most natural language processing tasks, in particular for machine translation. We analyze this shortcoming in this paper and propose an extended model of active memory that matches existing attention models on neural machine translation and generalizes better to longer sentences. We investigate this model and explain why previous active memory models did not succeed. Finally, we discuss when active memory brings most benefits and where attention can be a better choice.
Understanding the Effective Receptive Field in Deep Convolutional Neural Networks,We study characteristics of receptive fields of units in deep convolutional networks. The receptive field size is a crucial issue in many visual tasks, as the output must respond to large enough areas in the image to capture information about large objects. We introduce the notion of an effective receptive field size, and show that it both has a Gaussian distribution and   only occupies a fraction of the full theoretical receptive field size. We analyze the effective receptive field in several architecture designs, and the effect of sub-sampling, skip connections, dropout and nonlinear activations on it. This leads to suggestions for ways to address its tendency to be too small.
Local Similarity-Aware Deep Feature Embedding,Existing deep embedding methods in vision tasks are capable of learning a compact Euclidean space from images, where Euclidean distances correspond to a similarity metric. To make learning more effective and efficient, hard sample mining is usually employed, with samples identified through computing the Euclidean feature distance. However, the global Euclidean distance cannot faithfully characterize the true feature similarity in a complex visual feature space, where the intraclass distance in a high-density region may be larger than the interclass distance in low-density regions. In this paper, we introduce a Position-Dependent Deep Metric (PDDM) unit, which is capable of learning a similarity metric adaptive to local feature structure. The metric can be used to select genuinely hard samples in a local neighborhood to guide the deep embedding learning in an online and robust manner. The new layer is appealing in that it is pluggable to any convolutional networks and is trained end-to-end. Our local similarity-aware feature embedding not only demonstrates faster convergence and boosted performance on two complex image retrieval datasets, its large margin nature also leads to superior generalization results under the large and open set scenarios of transfer learning and zero-shot learning on ImageNet 2010 and ImageNet-10K datasets.
End-to-End Kernel Learning with Supervised Convolutional Kernel Networks,In this paper, we introduce a new image representation based on a multilayer kernel machine. Unlike traditional kernel methods where data representation is decoupled from the prediction task, we learn how to shape the kernel with supervision. We proceed by first proposing improvements of the recently-introduced convolutional kernel networks (CKNs) in the context of unsupervised learning; then, we derive backpropagation rules to take advantage of labeled training data. The resulting model is a new type of convolutional neural network, where optimizing the filters at each layer is equivalent to learning a linear subspace in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS). We show that our method achieves reasonably competitive performance for image classification on some standard ``deep learning'' datasets such as CIFAR-10 and SVHN, and also for image super-resolution, demonstrating the applicability of our approach to a large variety of image-related tasks.
Single-Image Depth Perception in the Wild,This paper studies single-image depth perception in the wild, i.e., recovering depth from a single image taken in unconstrained settings. We introduce a new dataset Depth in the Wild consisting of images in the wild annotated with relative depth between pairs of random points. We also propose a new algorithm that learns to estimate metric depth using annotations of relative depth. Compared to the state of the art, our algorithm is simpler and performs better. Experiments show that our algorithm, combined with existing RGB-D data and our new relative depth annotations, significantly improves single-image depth perception in the wild.
Toward Deeper Understanding of Neural Networks: The Power of Initialization and a Dual View on Expressivity,We develop a general duality between neural networks and compositional kernel Hilbert spaces. We introduce the notion of a computation skeleton, an acyclic graph that succinctly describes both a family of neural networks and a kernel space. Random neural networks are generated from a skeleton through node replication followed by sampling from a normal distribution to assign weights. The kernel space consists of functions that arise by compositions, averaging, and non-linear transformations governed by the skeleton's graph topology and activation functions. We prove that random networks induce representations which approximate the kernel space. In particular, it follows that random weight initialization often yields a favorable starting point for optimization despite the worst-case intractability of training neural networks.
Visual Dynamics: Probabilistic Future Frame Synthesis via Cross Convolutional Networks,We study the problem of synthesizing a number of likely future frames from a single input image. In contrast to traditional methods, which have tackled this problem in a deterministic or non-parametric way, we propose a novel approach which models future frames in a probabilistic manner. Our proposed method is therefore able to synthesize multiple possible next frames using the same model. Solving this challenging problem involves low- and high-level image and motion understanding for successful image synthesis. Here, we propose a novel network structure, namely a Cross Convolutional Network, that encodes images as feature maps and motion information as convolutional kernels to aid in synthesizing future frames. In experiments, our model performs well on both synthetic data, such as 2D shapes and animated game sprites, as well as on real-wold video data. We show that our model can also be applied to tasks such as visual analogy-making, and present analysis of the learned network representations.
R-FCN: Object Detection via Region-based Fully Convolutional Networks,We present region-based, fully convolutional networks for accurate and efficient object detection. In contrast to previous region-based detectors such as Fast/Faster R-CNN that apply a costly per-region subnetwork hundreds of times, our region-based detector is fully convolutional with almost all computation shared on the entire image. To achieve this goal, we propose position-sensitive score maps to address a dilemma between translation-invariance in image classification and translation-variance in object detection. Our method can thus naturally adopt fully convolutional image classifier backbones, such as the latest Residual Networks (ResNets), for object detection. We show competitive results on the PASCAL VOC datasets (e.g., 83.6% mAP on the 2007 set) with the 101-layer ResNet. Meanwhile, our result is achieved at a test-time speed of 170ms per image, 2.5-20 times faster than the Faster R-CNN counterpart. Code is made publicly available at: https://github.com/daijifeng001/r-fcn.
Learning What and Where to Draw,Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have recently demonstrated the capability to synthesize compelling real-world images, such as room interiors, album covers, manga, faces, birds, and flowers. While existing models can synthesize images based on global constraints such as a class label or caption, they do not provide control over pose or object location. We propose a new model, the Generative Adversarial What-Where Network (GAWWN), that synthesizes images given instructions describing what content to draw in which location. We show high-quality 128  128 image synthesis on the Caltech-UCSD Birds dataset, conditioned on both informal text descriptions and also object location. Our system exposes control over both the bounding box around the bird and its constituent parts. By modeling the conditional distributions over part locations, our system also enables conditioning on arbitrary subsets of parts (e.g. only the beak and tail), yielding an efficient interface for picking part locations.
Consistent Estimation of Functions of Data Missing Non-Monotonically and Not at Random,Missing records are a perennial problem in analysis of complex data of all types, when the target of inference is some function of the full data law.   In simple cases, where data is missing at random or completely at random (Rubin, 1976), well-known adjustments exist that result in consistent estimators of target quantities.  Assumptions underlying these estimators are generally not realistic in practical missing data problems.  Unfortunately, consistent estimators in more complex cases where data is missing not at random, and where no ordering on variables induces monotonicity of missingness status are not known in general, with some notable exceptions (Robins, 1997), (Tchetgen Tchetgen et al, 2016), (Sadinle and Reiter, 2016).  In this paper, we propose a general class of consistent estimators for cases where data is missing not at random, and missingness status is non-monotonic.  Our estimators, which are generalized inverse probability weighting estimators, make no assumptions on the underlying full data law, but instead place independence restrictions, and certain other fairly mild assumptions, on the distribution of missingness status conditional on the data.  The assumptions we place on the distribution of missingness status conditional on the data  can be viewed as a version of a conditional Markov random field (MRF) corresponding to a chain graph.  Assumptions embedded in our model permit identification from the observed data law, and admit a natural fitting procedure based on the pseudo likelihood approach of (Besag, 1975).  We illustrate our approach with a simple simulation study, and an analysis of risk of premature birth in women in Botswana exposed to highly active anti-retroviral therapy.
Stochastic Online AUC Maximization,Area under ROC (AUC) is a metric which is widely used for measuring the classification performance for imbalanced data. It is of theoretical and practical interest to develop online learning algorithms that maximizes AUC for large-scale data. A specific challenge in developing online AUC maximization algorithm is that the learning objective function is usually defined over a pair of training examples of opposite classes, and existing methods achieves on-line processing with higher space and time complexity. In this work, we propose a new stochastic online algorithm for AUC maximization. In particular, we show that AUC optimization can  be equivalently formulated as a convex-concave saddle point problem. From this saddle representation, a stochastic online algorithm (SOLAM) is proposed which has time and space complexity of one datum. We establish theoretical convergence of SOLAM with high probability and demonstrate its effectiveness and efficiency on standard benchmark datasets.
Deep Learning without Poor Local Minima,In this paper, we prove a conjecture published in 1989 and also partially address an open problem announced at the Conference on Learning Theory (COLT) 2015. For an expected loss function of a deep nonlinear neural network, we prove the following statements under the independence assumption adopted from recent work: 1) the function is non-convex and non-concave, 2) every local minimum is a global minimum, 3) every critical point that is not a global minimum is a saddle point, and 4) the property of saddle points differs for shallow networks (with three layers) and deeper networks (with more than three layers). Moreover, we prove that the same four statements hold for deep linear neural networks with any depth, any widths and no unrealistic assumptions. As a result, we present an instance, for which we can answer to the following question: how difficult to directly train a deep model in theory? It is more difficult than the classical machine learning models (because of the non-convexity), but not too difficult (because of the nonexistence of poor local minima and the property of the saddle points). We note that even though we have advanced the theoretical foundations of deep learning, there is still a gap between theory and practice. 
Regularized Nonlinear Acceleration,We describe a convergence acceleration technique for generic optimization problems. Our scheme computes estimates of the optimum from a nonlinear average of the iterates produced by any optimization method. The weights in this average are computed via a simple and small linear system, whose solution can be updated online. This acceleration scheme runs in parallel to the base algorithm, providing improved estimates of the solution on the fly, while the original optimization method is running. Numerical experiments are detailed on classical classification problems.
Learning to Poke by Poking: Experiential Learning of Intuitive Physics,We investigate an experiential learning paradigm for acquiring an internal model of intuitive physics. Our model is evaluated on a real-world robotic manipulation task that requires displacing objects to target locations by poking. The robot gathered over 400 hours of experience by executing more than 50K pokes on different objects. We propose a novel approach based on deep neural networks for modeling the dynamics of robot's interactions directly from images, by jointly estimating forward and inverse models of dynamics. The inverse model objective provides supervision to construct informative visual features, which the forward model can then predict and in turn regularize the feature space for the inverse model. The interplay between these two objectives creates useful, accurate models that can then be used for multi-step decision making. This formulation has the additional benefit that it is possible to learn forward models in an abstract feature space and thus alleviate the need of predicting pixels. Our experiments show that this joint modeling approach outperforms alternative methods. We also demonstrate that active data collection using the learned model further improves performance.
Weight Normalization: A Simple Reparameterization to Accelerate Training of Deep Neural Networks,We present weight normalization: a reparameterization of the weight vectors in a neural network that decouples the length of those weight vectors from their direction. By reparameterizing the weights in this way we improve the conditioning of the optimization problem and we speed up convergence of stochastic gradient descent. Our reparameterization is inspired by batch normalization but does not introduce any dependencies between the examples in a minibatch. This means that our method can also be applied successfully to recurrent models such as LSTMs and to noise-sensitive applications such as deep reinforcement learning or generative models, for which batch normalization is less well suited. Although our method is much simpler, it still provides much of the speed-up of full batch normalization. In addition, the computational overhead of our method is lower, permitting more optimization steps to be taken in the same amount of time. We demonstrate the usefulness of our method on applications in supervised image recognition, generative modelling, and deep reinforcement learning.
Linear-Memory and Decomposition-Invariant Linearly Convergent Conditional Gradient Algorithm for Structured Polytopes,Recently, several works have shown that natural modifications of the classical conditional gradient method (aka Frank-Wolfe algorithm) for constrained convex optimization, provably converge with a linear rate when the feasible set is a polytope, and the objective is smooth and strongly-convex. However, all of these results suffer from two significant shortcomings: i) large memory requirement due to the need to store an explicit convex decomposition of the current iterate, and as a consequence, large running-time overhead per iteration ii) the worst case convergence rate depends unfavorably on the dimension In this work we present a new conditional gradient variant and a corresponding analysis that improves on both of the above shortcomings. In particular, both memory and computation overheads are only linear in the dimension, and in addition, in case the optimal solution is sparse, the new convergence rate replaces a factor which is at least linear in the dimension in previous works, with a linear dependence on the number of non-zeros in the optimal solution At the heart of our method, and corresponding analysis, is a novel way to compute decomposition-invariant away-steps. While our theoretical guarantees do not apply to any polytope, they apply to several important structured polytopes that capture central concepts such as paths in graphs, perfect matchings in bipartite graphs, marginal distributions that arise in structured prediction tasks, and more. Our theoretical findings are complemented by empirical evidence that shows that our method delivers state-of-the-art performance.
Achieving the KS threshold in the general stochastic block model with linearized acyclic belief propagation,The stochastic block model (SBM) has long been studied in machine learning and network science as a canonical model for clustering and community detection. In the recent years, new developments have demonstrated the presence of threshold phenomena for this model, which have set new challenges for algorithms. For the {\it detection} problem in symmetric SBMs, Decelle et al.\ conjectured that the so-called Kesten-Stigum (KS) threshold can be achieved efficiently. This was proved for two communities, but remained open from three communities. We prove this conjecture here, obtaining a more general result that applies to arbitrary SBMs with linear size communities. The developed algorithm is a linearized acyclic belief propagation (ABP) algorithm, which mitigates the effects of cycles while provably achieving the KS threshold in $O(n \ln n)$ time. This extends prior methods by achieving universally the KS threshold while reducing or preserving the computational complexity. ABP is also connected to a power iteration method on a generalized nonbacktracking operator, formalizing the spectral-message passing interplay described in Krzakala et al., and extending results from Bordenave et al.
Orthogonal Random Features,We present an intriguing discovery related to Random Fourier Features: replacing multiplication by a random Gaussian matrix with multiplication by a properly scaled random orthogonal matrix significantly decreases kernel approximation error. We call this technique Orthogonal Random Features (ORF), and provide theoretical and empirical justification for its effectiveness. Motivated by the discovery, we further propose Structured Orthogonal Random Features (SORF), which uses a class of structured discrete orthogonal matrices to speed up the computation. The method reduces the time cost from $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$ to $\mathcal{O}(d \log d)$, where $d$ is the data dimensionality, with almost no compromise in kernel approximation quality compared to ORF. Experiments on several datasets verify the effectiveness of ORF and SORF over the existing methods. We also provide discussions on using the same type of discrete orthogonal structure for a broader range of kernels and applications.
Universal Correspondence Network,We present a deep learning framework for accurate visual correspondences and demonstrate its effectiveness for both geometric and semantic matching, spanning across rigid motions to intra-class shape or appearance variations. In contrast to previous CNN-based approaches that optimize a surrogate patch similarity objective, we use deep metric learning to directly learn a feature space that preserves either geometric or semantic similarity. Our fully convolutional architecture, along with a novel correspondence contrastive loss allows faster training by effective reuse of computations, accurate gradient computation through the use of thousands of examples per image pair and faster testing with $O(n)$ feedforward passes for n keypoints, instead of $O(n^2)$ for typical patch similarity methods. We propose a convolutional spatial transformer to mimic patch normalization in traditional features like SIFT, which is shown to dramatically boost accuracy for semantic correspondences across intra-class shape variations. Extensive experiments on KITTI, PASCAL and CUB-2011 datasets demonstrate the significant advantages of our features over prior works that use either hand-constructed or learned features.
The Multiscale Laplacian Graph Kernel,Many real world graphs, such as the graphs of molecules, exhibit structure at multiple different scales, but most existing kernels between graphs are either purely local or purely global in character. In contrast, by building a hierarchy of nested subgraphs, the Multiscale Laplacian Graph kernels (MLG kernels) that we define in this paper can account for structure at a range of different scales. At the heart of the MLG construction is another new graph kernel, called the Feature Space Laplacian Graph kernel (FLG kernel), which has the property that it can lift a base kernel defined on the vertices of two graphs to a kernel between the graphs. The MLG kernel applies such FLG kernels to subgraphs recursively. To make the MLG kernel computationally feasible, we also introduce a randomized projection procedure, similar to the Nystro m method, but for RKHS operators.
Generalization of ERM in Stochastic Convex Optimization: The Dimension Strikes Back,In stochastic convex optimization the goal is to minimize a convex function $F(x) \doteq \E_{f\sim D}[f(x)]$ over a convex set $\K \subset \R^d$ where $D$ is some unknown distribution and each $f(\cdot)$ in the support of $D$ is convex over $\K$. The optimization is based on i.i.d.~samples $f^1,f^2,\ldots,f^n$ from $D$. A common approach to such problems is empirical risk minimization (ERM) that optimizes $F_S(x) \doteq \frac{1}{n}\sum_{i\leq n} f^i(x)$. Here we consider the question of how many samples are necessary for ERM to succeed and the closely related question of uniform convergence of $F_S$ to $F$ over $\K$. We demonstrate that in the standard $\ell_p/\ell_q$ setting of Lipschitz-bounded functions over a $\K$ of bounded radius, ERM requires sample size that scales linearly with the dimension $d$. This nearly matches standard upper bounds and improves on $\Omega(\log d)$ dependence proved for $\ell_2/\ell_2$ setting in (Shalev-Shwartz et al.  2009). In stark contrast, these problems can be solved using dimension-independent number of samples for $\ell_2/\ell_2$ setting and $\log d$ dependence for $\ell_1/\ell_\infty$ setting using other approaches. We also demonstrate that for a more general class of range-bounded (but not Lipschitz-bounded) stochastic convex programs an even stronger gap appears already in dimension 2.
Large-Scale Price Optimization via Network Flow,This paper deals with price optimization, which is to find the best pricing strategy that maximizes revenue or profit, on the basis of demand forecasting models. Though recent advances in regression technologies have made it possible to reveal price-demand relationship of a number of multiple products, most existing price optimization methods, such as mixed integer programming formulation, cannot handle tens or hundreds of products because of their high computational costs. To cope with this problem, this paper proposes a novel approach based on network flow algorithms. We reveal a connection between supermodularity of the revenue and cross elasticity of demand. On the basis of this connection, we propose an efficient algorithm that employs network flow algorithms. The proposed algorithm can handle hundreds or thousands of products, and returns an exact optimal solution under an assumption regarding cross elasticity of demand. Even in case in which the assumption does not hold, the proposed algorithm can efficiently find approximate solutions as good as can other state-of-the-art methods, as empirical results show.
Bayesian Optimization with Robust Bayesian Neural Networks,Bayesian optimization is a prominent method for optimizing expensive to evaluate black-box functions that is prominently applied to tuning the hyperparameters of machine learning algorithms. Despite its successes, the prototypical Bayesian optimization approach - using Gaussian process models - does not scale well to either many hyperparameters or many function evaluations. Attacking this lack of scalability and flexibility is thus one of the key challenges of the field. We present a general approach for using flexible parametric models (neural networks) for Bayesian optimization, staying as close to a truly Bayesian treatment as possible. We obtain scalability through stochastic gradient Hamiltonian Monte Carlo, whose robustness we improve via a scale adaptation. Experiments including multi-task Bayesian optimization with 21 tasks, parallel optimization of deep neural networks and deep reinforcement learning show the power and flexibility of this approach. 
Protein contact prediction from amino acid co-evolution using convolutional networks for graph-valued images,Proteins are the "building blocks of life", the most abundant organic molecules, and the central focus of most areas of biomedicine. Protein structure is strongly related to protein function, thus structure prediction is a crucial task on the way to solve many biological questions. A contact map is a compact representation of the three-dimensional structure of a protein via the pairwise contacts between the amino acid constituting the protein. We use a convolutional network to calculate protein contact maps from inferred statistical coupling between positions in the protein sequence. The input to the network has an image-like structure amenable to convolutions, but every "pixel" instead of color channels contains a bipartite undirected edge-weighted graph. We propose several methods for treating such "graph-valued images" in a convolutional network. The proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art methods by a large margin. It also allows for a great flexibility with regard to the input data, which makes it useful for studying a wide range of problems. 
Supervised Word Mover's Distance,Accurately measuring the similarity between text documents lies at the core of many real world applications of machine learning. These include web-search ranking, document recommendation, multi-lingual document matching, and article categorization. Recently, a new document metric, the word mover's distance (WMD), has been proposed with unprecedented results on kNN-based document classification. The WMD elevates high quality word embeddings to document metrics by formulating the distance between two documents as an optimal transport problem between the embedded words. However, the document distances are entirely unsupervised and lack a mechanism to incorporate supervision when available. In this paper we propose an efficient technique to learn a supervised metric, which we call the Supervised WMD (S-WMD) metric. Our algorithm learns document distances that measure the underlying semantic differences between documents by leveraging semantic differences between individual words discovered during supervised training. This is achieved with an linear transformation of the underlying word embedding space and tailored word-specific weights, learned to minimize the stochastic leave-one-out nearest neighbor classification error on a per-document level. We evaluate our metric on eight real-world text classification tasks on which S-WMD consistently  outperforms almost all of our 26 competitive baselines. 
Beyond Exchangeability: The Chinese Voting Process,Many online communities present user-contributed responses, such as reviews of products and answers to questions. User-provided helpfulness votes can highlight the most useful responses, but voting is a social process that can gain momentum based on the popularity of responses and the polarity of existing votes. We propose the Chinese Voting Process (CVP) which models the evolution of helpfulness votes as a self-reinforcing process dependent on position and presentation biases. We evaluate this model on Amazon product reviews and more than 80 StackExchange forums, measuring the intrinsic quality of individual responses and behavioral coefficients of different communities.
Poisson-Gamma dynamical systems,This paper presents a dynamical system based on the Poisson-Gamma construction for sequentially observed multivariate count data.  Inherent to the model is a novel Bayesian nonparametric prior that ties and shrinks parameters in a powerful way. We develop theory about the model's infinite limit and its steady-state.  The model's inductive bias is demonstrated on a variety of real-world datasets where it is shown to learn interpretable structure and have superior predictive performance.
Interpretable Distribution Features with Maximum Testing Power,Two semimetrics on probability distributions are proposed, given as the sum of differences of expectations of analytic functions evaluated at spatial or frequency locations (i.e, features). The features are chosen so as to maximize the distinguishability of the distributions, by optimizing a lower bound on test power for a statistical test using these features. The result is a parsimonious and interpretable indication of how and where two distributions differ locally. An empirical estimate of the test power criterion converges with increasing sample size, ensuring the quality of the returned features. In real-world benchmarks on high-dimensional text and image data, linear-time tests using the proposed semimetrics achieve comparable performance to the state-of-the-art quadratic-time maximum mean discrepancy test, while returning human-interpretable features that explain the test results.
Dense Associative Memory for Pattern Recognition,A model of associative memory is studied, which stores and reliably retrieves many more patterns than the number of neurons in the network.  We propose a simple duality between this dense associative memory and neural networks commonly used in deep learning. On the associative memory side of this duality, a family of models that smoothly interpolates between two limiting cases can be constructed.  One limit is referred to as the feature-matching mode of pattern recognition, and the other one as the prototype regime. On the deep learning side of the duality, this family corresponds to feedforward neural networks with one hidden layer and various activation functions, which transmit the activities of the visible neurons to the hidden layer. This family of activation functions includes logistics, rectified linear units, and rectified polynomials of higher degrees. The proposed duality makes it possible to apply energy-based intuition from associative memory to analyze computational properties of neural networks with unusual activation functions - the higher rectified polynomials which until now have not been used in deep learning. The utility of the dense memories is illustrated for two test cases: the logical gate XOR and the recognition of handwritten digits from the MNIST data set.
Relevant sparse codes with variational information bottleneck,In many applications, it is desirable to extract only the relevant aspects of data. A principled way to do this is the information bottleneck (IB) method, where one seeks a code that maximises information about  a relevance variable, Y, while constraining the information encoded about the original data, X. Unfortunately however, the IB method is computationally demanding when data are high-dimensional and/or non-gaussian. Here we propose an approximate variational scheme for maximising a lower bound on the IB objective, analogous to variational EM. Using this method, we derive an IB algorithm to recover features that are both relevant and sparse. Finally, we demonstrate how kernelised versions of the algorithm can be used to address a broad range of problems with non-linear relation between X and Y.
Examples are not enough, learn to criticize! Criticism for Interpretability ,Example-based explanations are widely used in the effort to improve the interpretability of highly complex distributions. However, prototypes alone are rarely sufficient to represent the gist of the complexity. In order for users to construct better mental models and understand complex data distributions, we also need {\em criticism} to explain what are \textit{not} captured by prototypes.  Motivated by the Bayesian model criticism framework, we develop \texttt{MMD-critic} which efficiently learns prototypes and criticism, designed to aid human interpretability. A human subject pilot study shows that the \texttt{MMD-critic} selects prototypes and criticism that are useful to facilitate human understanding and reasoning. We also evaluate the prototypes selected by \texttt{MMD-critic} via a nearest prototype classifier, showing competitive performance compared to baselines. 
Showing versus doing: Teaching by demonstration,People often learn from others' demonstrations, and classic inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithms have brought us closer to realizing this capacity in machines. In contrast, teaching by demonstration has been less well studied computationally. Here, we develop a novel Bayesian model for teaching by demonstration. Stark differences arise when demonstrators are intentionally teaching a task versus simply performing a task. In two experiments, we show that human participants systematically modify their teaching behavior consistent with the predictions of our model. Further, we show that even standard IRL algorithms benefit when learning from behaviors that are intentionally pedagogical. We conclude by discussing IRL algorithms that can take advantage of intentional pedagogy.
Learning Active Learning from Data,In this paper, we suggest a novel data-driven approach to active learning (AL). The key idea is to train a regressor that predicts the expected error reduction for a candidate sample in a particular learning state. By formulating the query selection procedure as a regression problem we are not restricted to working with existing AL heuristics; instead, we learn strategies based on experience from previous AL outcomes. We show that a strategy can  be learnt either from simple synthetic 2D datasets or  from a subset of domain-specific data. Our method yields strategies that work well on real data from a wide range of domains.
Scalable Variational Inference for Dynamical Systems,Gradient matching is a promising tool for learning parameters and state dynamics of ordinary differential equations. It is a grid free inference approach which for fully observable systems is at times competitive with numerical integration. However for many real-world applications, only sparse observations are available or even unobserved variables are included in the model description. In these cases most gradient matching methods are difficult to apply or simply do not provide satisfactory results. That is why despite the high computational cost numerical integration is still the gold standard in many applications. Using an existing gradient matching approach, we propose a scalable variational inference framework, which can infer states and parameters simultaneously, offers computational speedups, improved accuracy and works well even under model misspecifications in a partially observable system.
Active Learning from Peers,This paper addresses the challenge of learning from peers in an online multitask setting. Instead of always requesting a label from a human oracle, the proposed method first determines if the learner for each task can acquire that label with sufficient confidence from its peers either as a task-similarity weighted sum, or from the single most similar task.  If so, it saves the oracle query for later use in more difficult cases, and if not it queries the human oracle.  The paper develops the new algorithm to exhibit this behavior and proves a theoretical mistake bound for the method compared to the best linear predictor in hindsight. Experiments over three multitask learning benchmark datasets show clearly superior performance over baselines such as assuming task independence, learning only from the oracle and not learning from peer tasks.
Gradient Episodic Memory for Continuum Learning,A major obstacle towards artificial intelligence is the poor ability of current models to reuse knowledge acquired in the past to quickly learn new tasks, while not forgetting what has been  previously learned. In this work, we formalize such \emph{continuum learning} setting, where training examples are not \emph{iid}, but generated by a continuous stream of tasks with unknown relationship. First, we propose a new set of metrics for continuum learning, which characterize learning systems not only in terms of their average accuracy but also in terms of their ability to transfer knowledge to previous and future tasks. Second, we propose a model for continuum learning, termed Gradient of Episodic Memory (GEM), which reduces forgetting and allows potential improvements in performance on previous tasks. Our experiments on variants of MNIST and CIFAR100 datasets demonstrate the strong performance of this model compared to a variety of state-of-the-art contenders.
Consistent Multitask Learning with Nonlinear Output Relations,Key to multitask learning is exploiting relationships between different tasks to improve prediction performance. If the relations are linear, regularization approaches can be used   successfully. However, in practice assuming the tasks to be linearly related might be restrictive, and allowing for nonlinear structures is a challenge. In this paper, we tackle this issue by casting the problem within the framework of structured prediction. Our main contribution is a novel algorithm for learning multiple tasks which are related by a system of nonlinear equations that their joint outputs need to satisfy. We show that the algorithm is consistent and can be efficiently implemented. Experimental results show the potential of the proposed method.
Joint distribution optimal transportation for domain adaptation,This paper deals with the unsupervised domain adaptation problem, where one wants to estimate a prediction function $f$ in a given target domain without any labeled sample by exploiting the knowledge available from a source domain where labels are known. Our work makes the following assumption: there exists a  non-linear transformation between the joint feature/label space distributions of the two domain $\ps$ and $\pt$. We propose a solution of this problem with optimal transport, that allows to recover an estimated target $\pt^f=(X,f(X))$ by optimizing simultaneously the optimal coupling and $f$. We show that our method corresponds to the minimization of a bound on the target error, and provide an efficient algorithmic solution, for which convergence is proved. The versatility of our approach, both in terms of class of hypothesis or loss functions is demonstrated with real world classification and regression problems, for which we reach or surpass state-of-the-art results.  
Learning Multiple Tasks with Deep Relationship Networks,Deep networks trained on large-scale data can learn transferable features to promote learning multiple tasks. As deep features eventually transition from general to specific along deep networks, a fundamental problem is how to exploit the relationship across different tasks and improve the feature transferability in the task-specific layers. In this paper, we propose Deep Relationship Networks (DRN) that discover the task relationship based on novel tensor normal priors over the parameter tensors of multiple task-specific layers in deep convolutional networks. By jointly learning transferable features and task relationships, DRN is able to alleviate the dilemma of negative-transfer in the feature layers and under-transfer in the classifier layer. Extensive experiments show that DRN yields state-of-the-art results on standard multi-task learning benchmarks.
Label Efficient Learning of Transferable Representations acrosss Domains and Tasks,We propose a framework that learns a representation transferable across different domains and tasks in a data efficient manner. Our approach battles domain shift with a domain adversarial loss, and generalizes the embedding to novel task using a metric learning-based approach. Our model is simultaneously optimized on labeled source data and unlabeled or sparsely labeled data in the target domain. Our method shows compelling results on novel classes within a new domain even when only a few labeled examples per class are available, outperforming the prevalent fine-tuning approach. In addition, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on the transfer learning task from image object recognition to video action recognition. 
Matching neural paths: transfer from recognition to correspondence search,Many machine learning tasks require finding per-part correspondences between objects. In this work we focus on low-level correspondences --- a highly ambiguous matching problem. We propose to use a hierarchical semantic representation of the objects, coming from a convolutional neural network, to solve this ambiguity. Training it for low-level correspondence prediction directly might not be an option in some domains where the ground-truth correspondences are hard to obtain. We show how transfer from recognition can be used to avoid such training. Our idea is to mark parts as ``matching'' if their features are close to each other at all the levels of convolutional feature hierarchy (neural paths). Although the overall number of such paths is exponential in the number of layers, we propose a polynomial algorithm for aggregating all of them in a single backward pass. The empirical validation is done on the task of stereo correspondence and demonstrates that we achieve competitive results among the methods which do not use labeled target domain data.
Do Deep Neural Networks Suffer from Crowding?,Crowding is a visual effect suffered by humans, in which an object that can be recognized in isolation can no longer be recognized when other objects, so called clutter, are placed close to it. In this work, we study the effect of crowding in artificial Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) for object recognition. We analyze both deep convolutional neural networks  (DCNNs) as well as an extension of DCNNs that are multi-scale and that change the receptive field size of the convolution filters with their position in the image, called eccentricity-dependent models.  The latter  networks have been recently proposed for modeling the feedforward path of the primate visual cortex. Our results reveal that incorporating clutter into the images of the training set for learning the DNNs does not lead to robustness against clutter not seen at training. Also, when DNNs are trained on objects in isolation, we find that recognition accuracy of DNNs falls the closer the clutter is to the target object and the more clutter there is. We find that visual similarity between the target and clutter also plays a role and that pooling in early layers of the DNN leads to more crowding. Finally, we show that the eccentricity-dependent model trained on objects in isolation can recognize such target objects in clutter if the objects are near the center of the image, whereas the DCNN cannot.
SVCCA: Singular Vector Canonical Correlation Analysis for Deep Understanding and Improvement,With the continuing empirical successes of deep networks, it becomes   increasingly important to develop better methods for understanding   training of models and the representations learned within. In this   paper we propose Singular Value Canonical Correlation Analysis   (SVCCA), a tool for quickly comparing two representations in a way   that is both invariant to affine transform (allowing comparison   between different layers and networks) and fast to compute (allowing   more comparisons to be calculated than with previous methods).  We   deploy this tool to measure the intrinsic dimensionality of layers,   showing in some cases needless over-parameterization; to probe   learning dynamics throughout training, finding that networks   converge to final representations from the bottom up; to show where   class-specific information in networks is formed; and to suggest new   training regimes that simultaneously save computation and overfit   less.
Neural Expectation Maximization,Many real world tasks such as reasoning and physical interaction require iden- tification and manipulation of conceptual entities. A first step towards solving these tasks is the automated discovery of symbol-like representations that are both distributed and disentangled. In this paper we explicitly formalize the problem as inference in a spatial mixture model where each component is parametrized by a neural network. Based on the Expectation Maximization framework we then derive a differentiable clustering method that simultaneously learns how to group and represent individual entities. We evaluate our method on the (sequential) perceptual grouping task and find that it is accurately able to recover the constituent objects. We demonstrate that the learned representations are useful for predictive coding.
PointNet++: Deep Hierarchical Feature Learning on Point Sets in a Metric Space,Few prior works study deep learning on point sets. PointNet is a pioneer in this direction. However, by design PointNet does not capture local structures induced by the metric space points live in, limiting its ability to recognize fine-grained patterns and generalizability to complex scenes. In this work, we introduce a hierarchical neural network that applies PointNet recursively on a nested partitioning of the input point set. By exploiting metric space distances, our network is able to learn local features with increasing contextual scales. With further observation that point sets are usually sampled with varying densities, which results in greatly decreased performance for networks trained on uniform densities, we propose novel set learning layers to adaptively combine features from multiple scales. Experiments show that our network called PointNet++ is able to learn deep point set features efficiently and robustly. In particular, results significantly better than state-of-the-art have been obtained on challenging benchmarks of 3D point clouds.
Preserving Proximity and Global Ranking for Node Embedding,We investigate an unsupervised generative approach for network embedding. A multi-task Siamese neural network structure is formulated to connect embedding vectors and our objective to preserve the global node ranking and local proximity of nodes. We provide deeper analysis to connect the proposed proximity objective to link prediction and community detection in the network. We show our model can satisfy the following design properties: scalability, asymmetry, unity and simplicity. Experiment results not only verify the above design properties but also demonstrate the superior performance in learning-to-rank, classification, regression, and link prediction tasks. 
Unsupervised Transformation Learning via Convex Relaxations,Our goal is to extract meaningful transformations from data such as the thickness of lines in handwriting or the lighting in a portrait from raw images. In this work, we propose an unsupervised approach to learn such transformations based on reconstructing nearest neighbors using a linear combination of transformations. We derive a new algorithm for unsupervised linear transformation learning, and on handwritten digits and celebrity portrait datasets, we show that even with linear transformations, our method extracts meaningful transformations and generates visually high-quality transformed outputs. Moreover, our method is semiparametric and does not model the data distribution, allowing the learned transformations to extrapolate off the training data and work on new types of images. 
Hunt For The Unique, Stable, Sparse And Fast Feature Learning On Graphs,For the purpose of learning on graphs, we hunt for a graph representation that exhibit certain uniqueness, stability and sparsity properties while also being amenable to fast computation.  This leads to a graph representation based on the discovery of a family of graph  spectral distances (denoted as FGSD), which we prove to possess most of these desired properties. To both evaluate the quality of  graph features produced by  FGSD and demonstrate their utility, we apply them to the graph classification problem.  Through extensive experiments, we show that a simple SVM based classification algorithm, driven with our  powerful FGSD based graph features, significantly outperforms all the  more sophisticated  state-of-art   algorithms on the unlabeled node datasets in terms of both accuracy and speed;  it  also yields very competitive results on the labeled datasets -- despite the fact it does not utilize any node label information.
Deep Subspace Clustering Network,We present a novel deep neural network architecture for unsupervised subspace clustering. This architecture is built upon deep auto-encoders, which non-linearly map the input data into a latent space. Our key idea is to introduce a novel self-expressive layer between the encoder and the decoder to mimic the ``self-expressiveness'' property that has proven effective in traditional subspace clustering. Being differentiable, our new self-expressive layer provides a simple but effective way to learn pairwise affinities between all data points through a standard back-propagation procedure. Being nonlinear, our neural-network based method is able to cluster data points having complex (often nonlinear) structures. We further propose pre-training and fine-tuning strategies that let us effectively learn the parameters of our subspace clustering networks. Our experiments show that the proposed method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art unsupervised subspace clustering methods.
Learning Graph Embeddings with Embedding Propagation,We propose EP, Embedding Propagation, an unsupervised learning framework for graph-structured data. EP learns vector representations of graphs by passing two types of messages between neighboring nodes. Forward messages consist of label representations such as representations of words and other features associated with the nodes. Backward messages consist of the gradients that results from aggregating the representations and applying a reconstruction loss. Node representations are finally computed from the representation of their labels. With significantly fewer parameters and hyperparameters, an instance of EP is competitive with and often outperforms state of the art unsupervised learning methods on a range of benchmark data sets.
Unsupervised Sequence Classification using Sequential Output Statistics,We consider learning a sequence classifier without labeled data by using sequential output statistics. The problem is highly valuable since obtaining labels in training data is often costly, while the sequential output statistics (e.g., language models) could be obtained independently of input data and thus with low or no cost. To address the problem, we propose an unsupervised learning cost function and study its properties. We show that, compared to earlier works, it is less inclined to be stuck in trivial solutions and avoids the need for a strong generative model. Although it is harder to optimize in its functional form, a stochastic primal-dual gradient method is developed to effectively solve the problem. Experiment results on real-world datasets demonstrate that the new unsupervised learning method gives drastically lower errors than other baseline methods. Specifically, it reaches test errors about twice of those obtained by fully supervised learning.
Context Selection for Embedding Models,Word embeddings are an effective tool to analyze language, and they have been recently extended to model other types of data beyond text, such as items in recommendation systems. Embedding models consider the probability of a target observation (a word or an item) conditioned on the elements in the context (other words or items). In this paper, we show that conditioning on all the elements in the context is not optimal. Instead, we can improve the predictions and the quality of the embedding representations by modeling the probability of the target conditioned on a subset of the elements in the context. We develop a model that can account for this, and use amortized variational inference to automatically choose this subset. In our experiments, we demonstrate that our model outperforms standard embedding methods on datasets from different domains in terms of held-out predictions and quality of the embedding representations.
Probabilistic Rule Realization and Selection,Abstraction and realization are bilateral processes that are key in deriving intelligence and creativity. In many domains, the two processes are approached through \emph{rules}: high-level principles that reveal invariances within similar yet diverse examples. Under a probabilistic setting for discrete input spaces, we focus on the rule realization problem which generates input sample distributions that follow the given rules. More ambitiously, we go beyond a mechanical realization that takes whatever is given, but instead ask for proactively selecting reasonable rules to realize. This goal is demanding in practice, since the initial rule set may not always be consistent and thus intelligent compromises are needed. We formulate both rule realization and selection as two strongly connected components within a single and symmetric bi-convex problem, and derive an efficient algorithm that works at large scale. Taking music compositional rules as the main example throughout the paper, we demonstrate our model's efficiency in not only music realization (composition) but also music interpretation and understanding (analysis).
Trimmed Density Ratio Estimation,Density ratio estimation has become a versatile tool in machine learning community recently. However, due to its unbounded nature, density ratio estimation is vulnerable to corrupted data points, which often pushes the estimated ratio toward infinity. In this paper, we present a robust estimator which automatically identifies and trims outliers. The proposed estimator has a convex formulation, and the global optimum can be obtained via subgradient descent. We analyze the parameter estimation error of this estimator under high-dimensional settings. Experiments are conducted to verify the effectiveness of the estimator. 
A Minimax Optimal Algorithm for Crowdsourcing,We consider the problem of accurately estimating the reliability of workers based on noisy labels they provide, which is a fundamental question in crowdsourcing. We propose a novel lower bound on the minimax estimation error which applies to any estimation procedure. We further propose Triangular Estimation (TE), an algorithm for estimating the reliability of workers. TE has low complexity, may be implemented in a streaming setting when labels are provided by workers in real time, and does not rely on an iterative procedure. We prove that TE is minimax optimal and matches our lower bound. We conclude by assessing the performance of TE and other state-of-the-art algorithms on both synthetic and real-world data.
Introspective Classification with Convolutional Nets,We propose introspective convolutional networks (ICN) that emphasize the importance of having convolutional neural networks empowered with generative capabilities. We employ a reclassification-by-synthesis algorithm to perform training using a formulation stemmed from the Bayes theory. Our ICN tries to iteratively: (1) synthesize pseudo-negative samples; and (2) enhance itself by improving the classification. The single CNN classifier learned is at the same time generative --- being able to directly synthesize new samples within its own discriminative model. We conduct experiments on benchmark datasets including MNIST, CIFAR, and SVHN using state-of-the-art CNN architectures, and observe improved classification results.
Adaptive Classification for Prediction Under a Budget,We propose a novel adaptive approximation approach for test-time resource-constrained prediction. Given an input instance at test-time, a gating function identifies a prediction model for the input among a collection of models. Our objective is to minimize overall average cost without sacrificing accuracy. We learn gating and prediction models on fully labeled training data by means of a bottom-up strategy. Our novel bottom-up method first trains a high-accuracy complex model. Then a low-complexity gating and prediction model are subsequently learnt to adaptively approximate the high-accuracy model in regions where low-cost models are capable of making highly accurate predictions. We pose an empirical loss minimization problem with cost constraints to jointly train gating and prediction models. On a number of benchmark datasets our method outperforms state-of-the-art achieving higher accuracy for the same cost.
Learning with Feature Evolvable Streams,Learning with streaming data has attracted much attention during the past few years. Though most studies consider data stream with fixed features, in real practice the features may be evolvable. For example, features of data gathered by limited-lifespan sensors will change when these sensors are substituted by new ones. In this paper, we propose a novel learning paradigm: Feature Evolvable Streaming Learning where old features would vanish and new features will occur. Rather than relying on only the current features, we attempt to recover the vanished features and exploit it to improve performance. Specifically, we learn two models from the recovered features and the current features, respectively. To benefit from the recovered features, we develop two ensemble methods. In the first method, we combine the predictions from two models and theoretically show that with assistance of old features, the performance on new features can be improved. In the second approach, we dynamically select the best single prediction and establish a better performance guarantee when the best model switches. Experiments on both synthetic and real data validate the effectiveness of our proposal.
Aggressive Sampling for Multi-class to Binary Reduction with Applications to Text Classification,We address the problem of multi-class classification in the case where the number of classes is very large. We propose a double sampling strategy on top of a multi-class to binary reduction strategy, which transforms the original multi-class problem into a binary classification problem over pairs of examples. The aim of the sampling strategy is to overcome the curse of long-tailed class distributions exhibited in majority  of  large-scale  multi-class classification problems and to reduce the number of pairs of examples in the expanded data.  We show that this strategy does not alter the consistency of the empirical risk minimization principle defined over the double sample reduction. Experiments are carried out on DMOZ and Wikipedia collections with 10,000 to 100,000 classes where we show the efficiency of the proposed approach in terms of training and prediction time, memory consumption, and predictive performance with respect to state-of-the-art approaches.
Adversarial Surrogate Losses for Ordinal Regression,Ordinal regression seeks class label predictions when the penalty incurred for mistakes increases according to an ordering over the labels. The absolute error is a canonical example. Many existing methods for this task reduce to binary classification problems and employ surrogate losses, such as the hinge loss. We instead derive uniquely defined surrogate ordinal regression loss functions by seeking the predictor that is robust to the worst-case approximations of training data labels, subject to matching certain provided training data statistics. We demonstrate the advantages of our approach over other surrogate losses based on hinge loss approximations using UCI ordinal prediction tasks.
Formal Guarantees on the Robustness of a Classifier against Adversarial Manipulation,Recent work has shown that state-of-the-art classifiers are quite brittle, in the sense that a small adversarial change of an originally with high confidence correctly classified  input leads to a wrong classification again with high confidence. This raises concerns that such classifiers are vulnerable to attacks and calls into question their usage in safety-critical systems. We show in this paper for the first time formal guarantees on the robustness of a classifier by giving instance-specific \emph{lower bounds} on the norm of the input manipulation required to change the classifier decision. Based on this analysis we propose the Cross-Lipschitz regularization functional. We show that using this form of regularization in kernel methods resp. neural networks improves the robustness of the classifier without any loss in prediction performance. 
Cost efficient gradient boosting,Many applications require learning classifiers or regressors that are both accurate and cheap to evaluate. Prediction cost can be drastically reduced if the learned predictor is constructed such that on the majority of the inputs, it uses cheap features and fast evaluations. The main challenge is to do so with little loss in accuracy.   In this work we propose a budget-aware strategy based on deep boosted regression trees. In contrast to previous approaches to learning with cost penalties, our method can grow very deep trees that  on average are nonetheless cheap to compute. We evaluate our method on a number of datasets and find that it outperforms the current state of the art by a large margin. Our algorithm is easy to implement and its learning time is comparable to that of  the original gradient boosting. Source code is made available (after acceptance).
A Highly Efficient Gradient Boosting Decision Tree,Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBDT) is a popular machine learning algorithm, and has quite a few effective implementations such as XGBoost and pGBRT. Although many engineering optimizations have been adopted in these implementations, the efficiency and scalability are still unsatisfactory when the feature dimension is high and data size is large. A major reason is that for each feature, they need to scan all the data instances to estimate the information gain of all possible split points, which is very time consuming. To tackle this problem, we propose two novel techniques: \emph{Gradient-based One-Side Sampling} (GOSS) and \emph{Exclusive Feature Bundling} (EFB). With GOSS, we exclude a significant proportion of data instances with small gradients, and only use the rest to estimate the information gain. We prove that, since the data instances with larger gradients play a more important role in the computation of information gain, GOSS can obtain quite accurate estimation of the information gain with a much smaller data size. With EFB, we bundle mutually exclusive features (i.e., they rarely take nonzero values simultaneously), to reduce the number of features. We prove that finding the optimal bundling of exclusive features is NP-hard, but a greedy algorithm can achieve quite good approximation ratio (and thus can effectively reduce the number of features without hurting the accuracy of split point determination by much). We call our new GBDT implementation with GOSS and EFB \emph{LightGBM}. Our experiments on multiple public datasets show that, LightGBM speeds up the training process of conventional GBDT by up to over 20 times while achieving almost the same accuracy. 
Estimating Accuracy from Unlabeled Data: A Probabilistic Logic Approach,We propose an efficient method to estimate the accuracy of classifiers using only unlabeled data. We consider a setting with multiple classification problems where the target classes may be tied together through logical constraints. For example, a set of classes may be mutually exclusive, meaning that a data instance can belong to at most one of them. The proposed method is based on the intuition that: (i) when classifiers agree, they are more likely to be correct, and (ii) when the classifiers make a prediction that violates the constraints, at least one classifier must be making an error. Experiments on four real-world data sets produce accuracy estimates within a few percent of the true accuracy, using solely unlabeled data. Our models also outperform existing state-of-the-art solutions in both estimating accuracies, and combining multiple classifier outputs. The results emphasize the utility of logical constraints in estimating accuracy, thus validating our intuition.
Inferring Generative Model Structure with Static Analysis,Obtaining enough labeled training data for complex discriminative models is a major bottleneck in the machine learning pipeline. A popular solution is combining multiple sources of weak supervision using generative models. The structure of these models affects the quality of the training labels, but is difficult to learn without any ground truth labels. We instead rely on these weak supervision sources having some structure by virtue of being encoded programmatically. We present Coral, a paradigm that infers generative model structure by statically analyzing the code for these heuristics, thus reducing the data required to learn  structure significantly. We prove that Coral's sample complexity scales quasilinearly with the number of heuristics and number of relations found, improving over the standard sample complexity, which is exponential in n for identifying n-th degree relations. Experimentally, Coral matches or outperforms traditional structure learning approaches, by up to 3.81 F1 points. Using Coral to model dependencies instead of assuming independence results in performing better than a fully supervised model by 3.07 accuracy points when heuristics are used to label radiology data without ground truth labels.
Scalable Model Selection for Belief Networks,We propose a scalable algorithm for model selection in sigmoid belief networks (SBNs), based on the factorized asymptotic Bayesian (FAB) framework. We derive the corresponding generalized factorized information criterion (gFIC) for the SBN, which is proven to be statistically consistent with the marginal log-likelihood. To capture the dependencies within hidden variables in SBNs, a recognition network is employed to model the variational distribution. The resulting algorithm, which we call FABIA, can simultaneously execute both model selection and inference by maximizing the lower bound of gFIC. On both synthetic and real data, our experiments suggest that FABIA, when compared to state-of-the-art algorithms for learning SBNs, $(i)$ produces a more concise model, thus enabling faster testing; $(ii)$ improves predictive performance; $(iii)$ accelerates convergence; and $(iv)$ prevents overfitting.
Time-dependent spatially varying graphical models, with application to brain fMRI data analysis,Spatio-temporal data often exhibits nonstationary changes in spatial structure, which are often masked by strong temporal dependencies and nonseparability. In this work, we present an additive model that splits the data into a temporally correlated signal and spatially correlated noise. We model the spatially correlated portion using a time-varying Gaussian graphical model. Under assumptions on the smoothness of changes in graphical model structure, we derive strong single sample convergence results, confirming our ability to estimate and track meaningful graphical models as they evolve in time. We apply our methodology to the discovery of time-varying spatial structure in human brain fMRI signals. 
A Bayesian Data Augmentation Approach for Learning Deep Models,Data augmentation is an essential part of the training process applied to deep learning models.  The motivation is that a robust training process for deep learning models depends on large annotated datasets, which are expensive to be acquired, stored and processed.  Therefore a reasonable alternative is to be able to automatically generate new annotated training samples using a process known as data augmentation.  The dominant data augmentation approach in the field assumes that new training samples can be obtained via random geometric or appearance transformations applied to annotated training samples, but this is a strong assumption because it is unclear if this is a reliable generative model for producing new training samples.  In this paper, we provide a novel Bayesian formulation to data augmentation, allowing us to introduce a theoretically sound algorithm, based on an extension of the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), where new annotated training points are treated as missing variables and generated based on the distribution learned from the training set in a generalised Monte Carlo expectation maximisation process. Classification results on MNIST, CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 show the better performance of our proposed method compared to the current dominant data augmentation approach.
Union of Intersections (UoI) for Interpretable Data Driven Discovery and Prediction,The increasing size and complexity of scientific data could dramatically enhance discovery and prediction for basic scientific applications, e.g., neuroscience, genetics, systems biology, etc. Realizing this potential, however, requires novel statistical analysis methods that are both interpretable and predictive. We introduce the Union of Intersections (UoI) method, a flexible, modular, and scalable framework for enhanced model selection and estimation. The method performs model selection and model estimation through intersection and union operations, respectively. We show that UoI can satisfy the bi-criteria of low-variance and nearly unbiased estimation of a small number of interpretable features, while maintaining high-quality prediction accuracy. We perform extensive numerical investigation to evaluate a UoI algorithm ($UoI_{Lasso}$) on synthetic and real data. In doing so, we demonstrate the extraction of interpretable functional networks from human electrophysiology recordings as well as the accurate prediction of phenotypes from genotype-phenotype data with reduced features. We also show (with the $UoI_{L1Logistic}$ and $UoI_{CUR}$ variants of the basic framework) improved prediction parsimony for classification and matrix factorization on several benchmark biomedical data sets. These results suggest that methods based on UoI framework could improve interpretation and prediction in data-driven discovery across scientific fields.
Deep Learning with Topological Signatures,Inferring topological and geometrical information from data can offer an alternative perspective in machine learning problems. Methods from topological data analysis, e.g., persistent homology, enable us to obtain such information, typically in the form of summary representations of topological features. However, such topological signatures often  come with an unusual structure (e.g., multisets of intervals) that is highly impractical for most machine learning techniques. While many strategies have been proposed to map these topological signatures into machine learning compatible representations, they suffer from being agnostic to the target learning task. In contrast, we propose a technique that enables us to input topological signatures to deep neural networks and learn a task-optimal representation during training. Our approach is realized as a novel input layer with favorable theoretical properties. Classification experiments on 2D object shapes and social network graphs demonstrate the versatility of the approach and, in case of the latter, we even outperform the state-of-the-art by a large margin.
Practical Hash Functions for Similarity Estimation and Dimensionality Reduction,Hashing is a basic tool for dimensionality reduction employed in several aspects of machine learning. However, the perfomance analysis is often carried out under the abstract assumption that a truly random unit cost hash functions is used, without concern for which concrete hash function is employed. The concrete hash functions may work fine on sufficiently random input. The question is if they can be trusted in the real world where they may be faced with more structured input.  In this paper we focus on two prominent applications of hashing, namely similarity estimation with the one permutation hashing (OPH) scheme of Li et al. [NIPS'12] and feature hashing (FH) of Weinberger et al. [ICML'09], both of which have found numerous applications, i.e. in approximate near-neighbour search with LSH and classification with SVM.      We consider the recent mixed tabulation hash function of Dahlgaard et al. [FOCS'15] which was proved theoretically to perform like a truly random hash function in many applications, including the above OPH. Here we first show improved concentration bounds for FH with truly random hashing and then argue that mixed tabulation performs similar when the input vectors are not too dense. Our main contribution, however, is an experimental comparison of different hashing schemes inside the above applications.  We find that mixed tabulation hashing is almost as fast as the classic multiply-mod-prime scheme (ax+b) mod p, which is guaranteed to work well on sufficiently random data, but here we demonstrate that in the above applications, it can lead to bias and poor concentration on both real-world and synthetic data. We also compare with the popular MurmurHash3, which has no proven guarantees. Mixed tabulation and MurmurHash3 both perform similar to truly random hashing in our experiments. However, mixed tabulation was 40% faster than MurmurHash3, and it has the proven guarantee of good performance on all possible input making it more reliable.
Maxing and Ranking with Few Assumptions,PAC maximum %Maximum                                                                         selection (maxing) and ranking of $n$ elements via random pairwise comparisons have diverse applications and have been studied under many models and assumptions. With just one simple natural assumption: strong stochastic transitivity, we show that maxing can be performed with linearly many comparisons yet ranking requires quadratically many. % comparisons.                                                                   With no assumptions at all, we show that for the Borda-score metric, maximum selection can be performed with linearly many comparisons and ranking can be performed with $\cO(n\log n)$ comparisons.
Kernel functions based on triplet comparisons,We propose two ways of defining a kernel function on a data set when the only available information about the data set consists of similarity triplets of the form ``Object A is more similar to object B than to object C''. Machine learning problems based on such restricted information have become popular in recent years. While previous approaches construct a low-dimensional Euclidean embedding of the data set that reflects the given similarity triplets, we aim at defining kernel functions that correspond to high-dimensional embeddings. These kernel functions can subsequently be used to apply any kernel method to the data set. 
Learning A Structured Optimal Bipartite Graph for Co-Clustering,Co-clustering methods have been widely applied to document clustering and gene expression analysis. These methods make use of the duality between features and samples such that the co-occurring structure of sample and feature clusters can be extracted. In graph based co-clustering methods, a bipartite graph is constructed to depict the relation between features and samples. Most existing co-clustering methods conduct clustering on the graph achieved from the original data matrix, which doesn't have explicit cluster structure, thus they require a post-processing step to obtain the clustering results. In this paper, we propose a novel co-clustering method to learn a bipartite graph with exactly $k$ connected components, where $k$ is the number of clusters. The new bipartite graph learned in our model approximates the original graph but maintains explicit cluster structure, from which we can immediately get the clustering results without post-processing. Extensive empirical results are presented to verify the effectiveness and robustness of our model.
Multi-way Interacting Regression via Factorization Machines,We propose a Bayesian regression method that accounts for multi-way interactions of arbitrary orders among the predictor variables.  Our model makes use of a factorization mechanism for representing the regression  coefficients of interactions among the predictors, while the interaction selection is guided by  a prior distribution on random hypergraphs, a construction  which generalizes the Finite Feature Model. We present a posterior inference  algorithm based on Gibbs sampling, and establish posterior consistency  of our regression model. Our method is evaluated with extensive experiments on simulated data and  demonstrated to be able to identify meaningful interactions in several applications in genetics and retail demand forecasting.
Maximum Margin Interval Trees,Learning a regression function using censored or interval-valued output data is an important problem in fields such as genomics and medicine. The goal is to learn a real-valued prediction function, and the training output labels indicate an interval of possible values. Whereas most existing algorithms for this task are linear models, in this paper we investigate learning nonlinear tree models. We propose to learn a tree by minimizing a margin-based discriminative objective function, and we provide a dynamic programming algorithm for computing the optimal solution in log-linear time. We show empirically that this algorithm achieves state-of-the-art speed and prediction accuracy in a benchmark of several data sets.
Kernel Feature Selection via Conditional Covariance Minimization,We propose a framework for feature selection that employs kernel-based measures of independence to find a subset of covariates that is maximally predictive of the response. Building on past work in kernel dimension reduction, we formulate our approach as a constrained optimization problem involving the trace of the conditional covariance operator.
Improved Graph Laplacian via Geometric Self-Consistency,We address the problem of setting the kernel bandwidth, epps, used by Manifold Learning algorithms to construct the graph Laplacian. Exploiting the connection between manifold geometry, represented by the Riemannian metric, and the Laplace-Beltrami operator, we set epps by optimizing the Laplacian's ability to preserve the geometry of the data. Experiments show that this principled approach is effective and robust
Mixture-Rank Matrix Approximation for Collaborative Filtering,Low-rank matrix approximation (LRMA) methods have achieved excellent accuracy among today's collaborative filtering (CF) methods. In existing LRMA methods, the rank of user/item feature matrices is typically fixed, i.e., the same rank is adopted to describe all users/items. However, our studies show that submatrices with different ranks could coexist in the same user-item rating matrix, so that approximations with fixed ranks cannot perfectly describe the internal structures of the rating matrix, therefore leading to inferior recommendation accuracy. In this paper, a mixture-rank matrix approximation (MRMA) method is proposed, in which user-item ratings can be characterized by a mixture of LRMA models with different ranks. Meanwhile, a learning algorithm capitalizing on iterated condition modes is proposed to tackle the non-convex optimization problem pertaining to MRMA. Experimental studies on MovieLens and Netflix datasets demonstrate that MRMA can outperform six state-of-the-art LRMA-based CF methods in terms of recommendation accuracy.
Predictive State Recurrent Neural Networks,We present a new model, called Predictive State Recurrent Neural Networks (PSRNNs), for filtering and prediction in dynamical systems. PSRNNs draw on insights from both Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) and Predictive State Representations (PSRs), and inherit advantages from both types of models. Like many successful RNN architectures, PSRNNs use (potentially deeply composed) bilinear transfer functions to combine information from multiple sources, so that one source can act as a gate for another. These bilinear functions arise naturally from the connection to state updates in Bayes filters like PSRs, in which observations can be viewed as gating belief states. We show that PSRNNs can be learned effectively by combining backpropogation through time (BPTT) with an initialization  based on a statistically consistent learning algorithm for PSRs called two-stage regression (2SR). We also show that PSRNNs can be  can be factorized using tensor decomposition, reducing model size and suggesting interesting theoretical connections to existing multiplicative architectures such as LSTMs. We applied PSRNNs to 4 datasets, and showed that we outperform several popular alternative approaches to modeling dynamical systems in all cases.
Hierarchical Methods of Moments,Spectral methods of moments provide a powerful tool for learning the parameters of latent variable models. Despite their theoretical appeal, the applicability of these methods to real data is still limited due to a lack of robustness to model misspecification. In this paper we present a hierarchical approach to methods of moments to circumvent such limitations. Our method is based on replacing the tensor decomposition step used in previous algorithms with approximate joint diagonalization. Experiments on topic modeling show that our method outperforms previous tensor decomposition methods in terms of speed and model quality.
Multitask Spectral Learning of Weighted Automata,We consider the problem of estimating multiple related functions computed by weighted  automata~(WFA). We first present a natural notion of relatedness between WFAs by considering to which extent several WFAs can share a common underlying representation. We then introduce the model of vector-valued WFA which conveniently helps us formalize this notion of relatedness. Finally, we propose a spectral learning algorithm for vector-valued WFAs to tackle the multitask learning problem. By jointly learning multiple tasks in the form of a vector-valued WFA, our algorithm enforces the discovery of a representation space shared between tasks. The benefits of the proposed multitask approach are theoretically motivated and showcased through experiments on both synthetic and real world datasets.
Generative Local Metric Learning for Kernel Regression,This paper shows how metric learning can be used with Nadaraya-Watson (NW) kernel regression.  Compared with standard approaches such as bandwidth selection, we show how metric learning can significantly reduce the mean square error (MSE) in kernel regression, particularly for high-dimensional data.  We propose a method for efficiently learning a good metric function based upon analyzing the performance of the NW estimator for Gaussian-distributed data.  A key feature of our approach is that the NW estimator with a learned metric uses information from both the global and local structure of the training data.  Theoretical and empirical results confirm that the learned metric can considerably reduce the bias and MSE for kernel regression. 
Principles of Riemannian Geometry  in Neural Networks,This study deals with neural networks in the sense of differential transformations for systems of differential equations. It forms part of an attempt to construct a formalized general theory of neural networks as a branch of Riemannian geometry. From this perspective, the following theoretical results are developed and proven for feedforward networks, in the limit as the number of network layers goes to infinity. First it is shown that residual neural networks are dynamical systems of first order differential equations, as opposed to ordinary networks that are static, implying that the network is learning systems of differential equations to organize data. Second it is shown that, in the limit, the metric tensor for residual networks converges and is smooth, and thus defines a Riemannian manifold. Third it is shown that, in the limit, backpropagation on graphs converges on differentiable tensor fields. These results suggest an analogy with Einstein's General Relativity, where particle trajectories are geodesics on curved space-time manifolds, while neural networks are learning curved space-layer manifolds which determine the trajectory of the data as it moves through the network.
Subset Selection for Sequential Data,Subset selection, which is the task of finding a small subset of most informative items from a large ground set, finds numerous applications in different areas. Sequential data, including time-series and ordered data, contain important structural relationships among items, imposed by underlying dynamic models of data, that should play a vital role in the selection of representatives. However, nearly all existing subset selection techniques ignore underlying dynamics of data and treat items independently, leading to incompatible set of representatives. In this paper, we develop a new framework for sequential subset selection that takes advantage of the underlying dynamic models of data, promoting to select a set of representatives that not only are of high quality and diversity, but also are compatible according to the underlying dynamic models. To do so, we equip items with transition dynamic models and pose the problem as an integer binary optimization over assignments of sequential items to representatives, that leads to high encoding, diversity and transition potentials. As the proposed formulation is non-convex, we derive a max-sum message passing algorithm to solve the problem efficiently. Experiments on synthetic and real data, including instructional video summarization and motion capture segmentation, show that our sequential subset selection framework not only achieves better encoding and diversity than the state of the art, but also successfully incorporates dynamic of data, leading to compatible representatives.
On Quadratic Convergence of DC Proximal Newton Algorithm in Nonconvex Sparse Learning,We propose a DC proximal Newton algorithm for solving nonconvex regularized sparse learning problems in high dimensions. Our proposed algorithm integrates the proximal newton algorithm with multi-stage convex relaxation based on difference of convex (DC) programming,  and enjoys both strong computational and statistical guarantees. Specifically, by leveraging a sophisticated characterization of sparse modeling structures/assumptions (i.e., local restricted strong convexity and Hessian smoothness), we prove that within each stage of convex relaxation, our proposed algorithm achieves (local) quadratic convergence, and eventually obtains a sparse approximate local optimum with optimal statistical properties after only a few convex relaxations. Numerical experiments are provided to support our theory.
k-Support and Ordered Weighted Sparsity for Overlapping Groups: Hardness and Algorithms,The k-support and OWL norms generalize the l1 norm, providing better prediction accuracy and better handling of correlated variables. We study the norms obtained from extending the k-support norm and OWL norms to the setting in which there are overlapping groups. The resulting norms are in general NP-hard to compute, but they are tractable for certain collections of groups. To demonstrate this fact, we develop a dynamic program for the problem of projecting onto the set of vectors supported by a fixed number of groups. Our dynamic program utilizes tree decompositions and its complexity scales with the treewidth. This program can be converted to an extended formulation which, for the associated group structure, models the k-group support norms and an overlapping group variant of the ordered weighted l1 norm. Numerical results demonstrate the efficacy of the new penalties. 
Parametric Simplex Method for Sparse Learning,High dimensional sparse learning has imposed a great computational challenge to large scale data analysis. In this paper, we investiage a broad class of sparse learning approaches formulated as linear programs parametrized by a {\em regularization factor}, and solve them by the parametric simplex method (PSM). PSM offers significant advantages over other competing methods: (1) PSM naturally obtains the complete solution path for all values of the regularization parameter; (2) PSM provides a high precision dual certificate stopping criterion; (3) PSM yields sparse solutions through very few iterations, and the solution sparsity significantly reduces the computational cost per iteration. Particularly, we demonstrate the superiority of PSM over various sparse learning approaches, including Dantzig selector for sparse linear regression, sparse support vector machine for sparse linear classification, and sparse differential network estimation. We then provide sufficient conditions under which PSM always outputs sparse solutions such that its computational performance can be significantly boosted. Thorough numerical experiments are provided to demonstrate the outstanding performance of the PSM method.
Learned D-AMP: Principled Neural-network-based Compressive Image Recovery,Compressive image recovery is a challenging problem that requires fast and accurate algorithms. Recently, neural networks have been applied to this problem with promising results. By exploiting massively parallel GPU processing architectures and oodles of training data, they are able to run orders of magnitude faster than existing techniques. Unfortunately, these methods are difficult to train, often-times specific to a single measurement matrix, and largely unprincipled blackboxes.  It was recently demonstrated that iterative sparse-signal-recovery algorithms can be ``unrolled' to form interpretable deep neural networks. Taking inspiration from this work, we develop a novel neural network architecture that mimics the behavior of the denoising-based approximate message passing (D-AMP) algorithm. We call this new network {\em Learned} D-AMP (LDAMP).  The LDAMP network is easy to train, can be applied to a variety of different measurement matrices, and comes with a state-evolution heuristic that accurately predicts its performance. Most importantly, our network outperforms the state-of-the-art BM3D-AMP and NLR-CS algorithms in terms of both accuracy and runtime. At high resolutions, and when used with matrices which have fast matrix multiply implementations, LDAMP runs over $50\times$ faster than BM3D-AMP and hundreds of times faster than NLR-CS.
FALKON: An Optimal Large Scale Kernel Method,Kernel methods provide a principled way to perform non linear, nonparametric learning. They rely on solid functional analytic foundations and enjoy optimal statistical properties. However, at least in their basic form,  they have limited  applicability in large scale scenarios because of stringent computational requirements  in terms of time and especially memory. In this paper, we take a substantial step in scaling up kernel methods,  proposing  FALKON a novel algorithm that allows to efficiently process millions of points. FALKON is derived combining several algorithmic principles, namely stochastic subsampling, iterative solvers and preconditioning. Our theoretical analysis shows that  optimal statistical accuracy  is achieved  requiring essentially $O(n)$ memory and $O(n\sqrt{n})$  time. Extensive experiments  show that state of the art results on available large scale datasets can be achieved even on a single machine.
Efficient Approximation Algorithms for Strings Kernel Based Sequence Classification,Sequence classification algorithms, such as SVM, require a definition of distance (similarity) measure between two sequences. A commonly used notion of similarity is the number of matches between k-mers (k-length subsequences) in the two sequences. Extending this definition, by considering two k-mers to match if their distance is at most m, yields better classification performance. This, however, makes the problem computationally much more complex. Known algorithms to compute this similarity have computational complexity that render them applicable only for small values of k and m. In this work, we develop novel techniques to efficiently and accurately estimate the pairwise similarity score, which enables us to use much larger values of k and m, and get higher predictive accuracy. This opens up a broad avenue of applying this classification approach to audio, images, and text sequences. Our algorithm achieves excellent approximation performance with theoretical guarantees. In the process we solve an open combinatorial problem, which was posed as a major hindrance to scalability of existing solutions. We give analytical bounds on quality and runtime of our algorithm and report its empirical performance on real world biological and music sequences datasets.
Robust Hypothesis Test for Functional Effect with Gaussian Processes,This work constructs a hypothesis test for detecting whether an data-generating function $h: \real^p \rightarrow \real$ belongs to a specific reproducing kernel Hilbert space $\mathcal{H}_0$, where the structure of $\mathcal{H}_0$ is only partially known. Utilizing the theory of reproducing kernels, we reduce this hypothesis to a simple one-sided score test for a scalar parameter, develop a testing procedure that is robust against the mis-specification of kernel functions, and also propose an ensemble-based estimator for the null model to guarantee test performance in small samples. To demonstrate the utility of the proposed method, we apply our test to the problem of detecting nonlinear interaction between groups of continuous features. We evaluate the finite-sample performance of our test  under different data-generating functions and estimation strategies for the null model. Our results revealed interesting connection between notions in machine learning (model underfit/overfit) and those in statistical inference (i.e. Type I error/power of hypothesis test), and also highlighted unexpected consequences of common model estimating strategies (e.g. estimating kernel hyperparameters using maximum likelihood estimation) on model inference.
Invariance and Stability of Deep Convolutional Representations,In this paper, we study deep signal representations that are near-invariant to groups of transformations and stable to the action of diffeomorphisms without losing signal information. This is achieved by generalizing the multilayer kernel introduced in the context of convolutional kernel networks and by studying the geometry of the corresponding reproducing kernel Hilbert space. We show that the signal representation is stable, and that models from this functional space, such as a large class of convolutional neural networks, may enjoy the same stability. 
Testing and Learning on Distributions with Symmetric Noise Invariance,Kernel embeddings of distributions and the Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD), the resulting distance between distributions, are useful tools for fully nonparametric two-sample testing and learning on distributions. However, it is rarely that all possible differences between samples are of interest -- discovered differences can be due to different types of measurement noise, data collection artefacts or other irrelevant sources of variability. We propose distances between distributions which encode invariance to additive symmetric noise, aimed at testing whether the assumed true underlying processes differ. Moreover, we construct invariant features of distributions, leading to learning algorithms robust to the impairment of the input distributions with symmetric additive noise.
An Empirical Study on The Properties of Random Bases for Kernel Methods,Kernel machines and neural networks both possess universal function approximation properties. Nevertheless in practice their way of choosing the appropriate function class differ and thus limits of usage emerge. Specifically neural networks learn a representation adapting their basis functions to data and task, while kernel methods typically use one or few kernels that are not adapted (e.g., the width of an RBF kernel does not change anymore). We contribute in this work by contrasting neural network and kernel methods in an empirical study. Our analysis reveals how random and adaptive bases affect the quality of learning. Furthermore, we present kernel basis adaptation schemes that make a more efficient usage of features, while retaining their universality properties.
Max-Margin Invariant Features from Transformed Unlabelled Data,The study of representations invariant to common transformations of the data is important to learning. Most techniques have focused on local approximate invariance implemented within expensive optimization frameworks lacking explicit theoretical guarantees. In this paper, we study kernels that are invariant to a unitary group while having theoretical guarantees in addressing the important practical issue of unavailability of transformed versions of labelled data. A problem we call the Unlabeled Transformation Problem which is a special form of semi-supervised learning and one-shot learning. We present a theoretically motivated alternate approach to the invariant kernel SVM based on which we propose Max-Margin Invariant Features (MMIF) to solve this problem. As an illustration, we design an framework for face recognition and demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on a large scale semi-synthetic dataset with 153,000 images and a new challenging protocol on Labelled Faces in the Wild (LFW) while out-performing strong baselines.
SafetyNets: Verifiable Execution of Deep Neural Networks on an Untrusted Cloud,Inference using deep neural networks is often outsourced to the cloud since it is a computationally demanding task. However, this raises a fundamental issue of trust. How can a client be sure that the cloud has performed inference correctly? A lazy cloud provider might use a simpler but less accurate model to reduce its own computational load, or worse, maliciously modify the inference results sent to the client. We propose SafetyNets, a framework that enables an untrusted server (the cloud) to provide a client with a short mathematical proof of the correctness of inference tasks that they perform on behalf of the client. Specifically, SafetyNets develops and implements a specialized interactive proof (IP) protocol for verifiable execution of a class of deep neural networks, i.e., those that can be represented as arithmetic circuits. Our empirical results on three- and four-layer deep neural networks demonstrate the run-time costs of SafetyNets for both the client and server are low. SafetyNets detects any incorrect computations of the neural network by the untrusted server with high probability, while achieving state-of-the-art accuracy on the MNIST digit recognition (99.4%) and TIMIT speech recognition tasks (75.22%)
Multi-output Polynomial Networks and Factorization Machines,Factorization machines and polynomial networks are supervised polynomial models based on an efficient low-rank decomposition. We extend these models to the multi-output setting, i.e., for learning vector-valued functions, with application to multi-class or multi-task problems. We cast this as the problem of learning a 3-way tensor whose slices share a common decomposition and propose a convex formulation of that problem. We then develop an efficient conditional gradient algorithm and prove its global convergence, despite the fact that it involves a non-convex hidden unit selection step. On classification tasks, we show that our algorithm achieves excellent accuracy with much sparser models than existing methods. On recommendation system tasks, we show how to combine our algorithm with a reduction from ordinal regression to multi-output classification and show that the resulting algorithm outperforms existing baselines in terms of ranking accuracy.
The Neural Hawkes Process: A Neurally Self-Modulating Multivariate Point Process,Many events occur in the world. Some event types are stochastically excited or inhibited---in the sense of having their probabilities elevated or decreased---by patterns in the sequence of previous events. Discovering such patterns can help us predict which type of event will happen next and when. We propose to model streams of discrete events in continuous time, by constructing a neurally self-modulating multivariate point process in which the intensities of multiple event types evolve according to a novel continuous-time LSTM. This generative model allows past events to influence the future in complex and realistic ways, by conditioning future event intensities on the hidden state of a recurrent neural network that has consumed the stream of past events. Our model has desirable qualitative properties. It achieves competitive likelihood and predictive accuracy on real and synthetic datasets, including under missing-data conditions.
Maximizing the Spread of Influence from Training Data,We consider the canonical problem of influence maximization in social networks.  Since the seminal work of Kempte, Kleinberg, and Tardos there have been two, largely disjoint efforts on this problem.  The first studies the problem associated with learning the generative model that produces cascades, and the second focuses on the algorithmic challenge of identifying a set of influencers, assuming the generative model is known.  Recent results on learning and optimization imply that in general, if the generative model is not known but rather learned from training data, no algorithm for influence maximization can yield a constant factor approximation guarantee using polynomially-many samples, drawn from any distribution.  In this paper we describe a simple algorithm for maximizing influence from training data.  The main idea behind the algorithm is to leverage the strong community structure of social networks and identify a set of individuals who are influentials but whose communities have little overlap.  Although in general, the approximation guarantee of such an algorithm is unbounded, we show that this algorithm performs well experimentally.  To analyze its performance, we prove this algorithm obtains a constant factor approximation guarantee on graphs generated through the stochastic block model, traditionally used to model networks with community structure. 
Inductive Representation Learning on Large Graphs,Low-dimensional embeddings of nodes in large graphs have proved extremely useful in a variety of prediction tasks, from content recommendation to identifying protein functions. However, most existing approaches require that all nodes in the graph are present during training of the embeddings; these previous approaches are inherently transductive and do not naturally generalize to unseen nodes. Here we present GraphSAGE, a general, inductive framework that leverages node feature information (e.g., text attributes) to efficiently generate node embeddings.  Instead of training individual embeddings for each node, we learn a function that generates embeddings by sampling and aggregating features from a node's local neighborhood. Our algorithm outperforms strong baselines on three inductive node-classification benchmarks: we classify the category of unseen nodes in evolving information graphs based on citation and Reddit post data, and we show that our algorithm generalizes to completely unseen graphs using a multi-graph dataset of protein-protein interactions. 
A Meta-Learning Perspective on Cold-Start Recommendations for Items,Matrix factorization (MF) is one of the most popular techniques for product recommendation, but is known to suffer from serious cold-start problems.  Item cold-start problems are particularly acute in settings such as Tweet recommendation where new items arrive continuously. In this paper, we present a {\it meta-learning} strategy to address item cold-start when new items arrive continuously. We propose two deep neural network architectures that implement our meta-learning strategy. The first architecture learns a linear classifier whose weights are determined by the item history while the second architecture learns a neural network whose biases are instead adapted based on item history. We evaluate our techniques on the real-world problem of Tweet recommendation. On production data at Twitter, we demonstrate that our proposed techniques significantly beat the MF baseline with lookup table based user embeddings and also outperform the state-of-the-art production model for Tweet recommendation.
DropoutNet: Addressing Cold Start in Recommender Systems,Latent models have become the default choice for recommender systems due to their performance and scalability. However, research in this area has primarily focused on modeling user-item interactions, and few latent models have been developed for cold start. Deep learning has recently achieved remarkable success showing excellent results for diverse input types. Inspired by these results we propose a neural network based latent model to handle cold start in recommender systems. Unlike existing approaches that incorporate additional content-based objective terms, we instead focus on learning and show that neural network models can be explicitly trained to handle cold start through dropout. Our model can be trained on top of any existing latent model effectively providing cold start capabilities and full power of deep architectures. Empirically we demonstrate state-of-the-art accuracy on publicly available benchmarks.
Federated Multi-Task Learning,Federated learning poses new statistical and systems challenges in training machine learning models over distributed networks of devices. In this work, we show that multi-task learning is naturally suited to handle the statistical challenges of this setting, and propose a novel systems-aware optimization method, Mocha, that is robust to practical systems issues. Our method and theory for the first time consider issues of high communication cost, stragglers, and fault tolerance for distributed multi-task learning. The resulting method achieves significant speedups compared to alternatives in the federated setting, as we demonstrate through extensive simulations on real-world federated datasets.
Flexpoint: An Adaptive Numerical Format for Efficient Training of Deep Neural Networks,Deep neural networks are commonly developed and trained in 32-bit floating point format. Significant gains in performance and energy-efficiency could be realized from training and inference in numerical formats optimized for deep learning. Despite substantial advances in limited precision inference in recent years, training of neural networks in low bit-width remains a challenging problem. Here we present the Flexpoint data format, aiming at a complete replacement of 32-bit floating point format training and inference, designed to support all deep network topologies without modifications. Flexpoint tensors have a shared exponent that is dynamically adjusted to minimize overflows and maximizing available dynamic range. We validate Flexpoint by training an AlexNet, a deep residual network and a generative adversarial network, using a simulator implemented with the \emph{neon} deep learning framework. We demonstrate that 16-bit Flexpoint closely matches 32-bit floating point in training all three models, without any need for tuning of model hyper-parameters. Our results suggest Flexpoint as a promising numerical format for future hardware for training and inference. 
Bayesian Inference of Individualized Treatment Effects using Multi-task Gaussian Processes,Predicated on the increasing abundance of electronic health records, we investigate the problem of inferring individualized treatment effects using observational data. Stemming from the potential outcomes model, we propose a novel multi-task learning framework in which factual and counterfactual outcomes are modeled as the outputs of a function in a vector-valued reproducing kernel Hilbert space (vvRKHS). We develop a nonparametric Bayesian method for learning the treatment effects using a multi-task Gaussian process (GP) with a linear coregionalization kernel as a prior over the vvRKHS. The Bayesian approach allows us to compute individualized measures of confidence in our estimates via pointwise credible intervals, which are crucial for realizing the full potential of precision medicine. The impact of selection bias is alleviated via a risk-based empirical Bayes method for adapting the multi-task GP prior, which jointly minimizes the empirical error in factual outcomes and the uncertainty in (unobserved) counterfactual outcomes. We conduct experiments on observational datasets for an interventional social program applied to premature infants, and a left ventricular assist device applied to cardiac patients wait-listed for a heart transplant. In both experiments, we show that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art.
Tomography of the London Underground: a Scalable Model for Origin-Destination Data,The paper addresses the classical network tomography problem of inferring local traffic given origin-destination observations. Focussing on large complex public transportation systems, we build a scalable model that exploits input-output information to estimate the unobserved link/station loads and the users path preferences. Based on the reconstruction of the users' travel time distribution, the model is flexible enough to capture possible different path-choice strategies and correlations between users travelling on similar paths at similar times. The corresponding likelihood function is intractable for medium or large-scale networks and we propose two distinct strategies, namely the exact maximum-likelihood inference of an approximate but tractable model and the variational inference of the original intractable model. As an application of our approach, we consider the emblematic case of the London Underground network, where a tap-in/tap-out system tracks the start/exit time and location of all journeys in a day. A set of synthetic simulations and real data provided by Transport For London are used to validate and test the model on the predictions of observable and unobservable quantities.
Matching on Balanced Nonlinear Representations for Treatment Effects Estimation,Estimating treatment effects from observational data is a very challenging problem due to the missing counterfactuals. Matching is an effective strategy to tackle this problem. The widely used matching estimators such as nearest neighbor matching (NNM) pair the treated units with the most similar control units in terms of covariates, and then estimate treatment effects accordingly. However, existing matching estimators have poor performance when the distributions of control and treatment groups are unbalanced. Moreover, theoretical analysis suggests that the bias of causal effect estimation would increase with the dimension of covariates. In this paper, we aim to address these problems by learning low-dimensional  balanced and nonlinear representations (BNR) for observational data. In particular, we convert counterfactual prediction as a classification problem, develop a kernel learning model with domain adaptation constraint, and design a novel matching estimator. The dimension of covariates will be significantly reduced after projecting data to a low-dimensional subspace. Experiments on several synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
MolecuLeNet: A continuous-filter convolutional neural network for modeling quantum interactions,Deep learning has the potential to revolutionize quantum chemistry as it is ideally suited to learn representations for structured data and speed up the exploration of chemical space. While convolutional neural networks have proven to be the first choice for images, audio and video data, the atoms in molecules are not restricted to a grid. Instead, their precise locations contain essential physical information, that would get lost if discretized. Thus, we propose to use \textit{continuous-filter convolutional layers} to be able to model local correlations without requiring the data to lie on a grid. We apply those layers in MolecuLeNet: a novel deep learning architecture modeling quantum interactions in molecules. We obtain a joint model for the total energy and interatomic forces that follows fundamental quantum-chemical principles. This includes rotationally invariant energy predictions and a smooth, differentiable potential energy surface. Our architecture achieves state-of-the-art performance for benchmarks of equilibrium molecules and molecular dynamics trajectories. Finally, we introduce a more challenging benchmark with chemical and structural variations that suggests the path for further work.
Hiding Images in Plain Sight: Deep Steganography,Steganography is the practice of concealing a secret message within another, ordinary, message.  Commonly, steganography is used to unobtrusively hide a small message within the noisy regions of a larger image.  In this study, we attempt to place a full size color image within another image of the same size.  Deep neural networks are simultaneously trained to create the hiding and revealing processes and are designed to specifically work as a pair.  The system is trained on images drawn randomly from the ImageNet database, and works well on natural images from a wide variety of sources.  Beyond demonstrating the successful application of deep learning to hiding images, we carefully examine how the result is achieved and explore extensions.  Unlike many popular steganographic methods that encode the secret message within the least significant bits of the carrier image, our approach compresses and distributes the secret image's representation across all of the available bits.
Universal Style Transfer via Feature Transforms,Universal style transfer aims to transfer any arbitrary visual styles to content images. Existing feed-forward based methods, while enjoying the inference efficiency, are mainly limited by inability of generalizing to unseen styles or compromised visual quality. In this paper, we present a simple yet effective method that tackles these limitations without training on any pre-defined styles. The key ingredient of our method is a pair of feature transforms, whitening and coloring, that are embedded to an image reconstruction network. The whitening and coloring transforms reflect direct matching of feature covariance of the content image to a given style image, which shares similar spirits with the optimization of Gram matrix based cost in neural style transfer. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm by generating high-quality stylized images with comparisons to a number of recent methods. We also analyze our method by visualizing the whitened features and synthesizing textures by simple feature coloring.
Attend and Predict: Understanding Gene Regulation by Selective Attention on Chromatin,The past decade has seen a revolution in genomic technologies that enable a flood of genome-wide profiling of chromatin marks.  Recent literature tried to understand gene regulation by predicting gene expression from large-scale chromatin measurements.  Two fundamental challenges exist for such learning tasks: (1) genome-wide chromatin signals are spatially structured, high-dimensional and highly modular; and (2) the core aim is to understand what are the relevant factors and how they work together?  Previous studies either failed to model complex dependencies among input signals or relied on separate feature analysis to explain the decisions. This paper presents an attention-based deep learning approach; we call ChromAttention, that uses a unified architecture to model and to interpret dependencies among chromatin factors for controlling gene regulation. ChromAttention uses a hierarchy of multiple Long short-term memory (LSTM) modules to encode the input signals and to model how various chromatin marks cooperate automatically. ChromAttention trains two levels of attention jointly with the target prediction, enabling it to attend differentially to relevant marks and to locate important positions per mark. We evaluate the model across 56 different cell types (tasks) in human. Not only is the proposed architecture more accurate, but its attention scores also provide a better interpretation than state-of-the-art feature visualization methods such as saliency map. 
Unbounded cache model for online language modeling with open vocabulary,We propose an extension to recurrent networks for language modeling to adapt their prediction to changes in the data distribution. We associate them with a non-parametric large scale memory component that stores all the hidden activations  seen in the past. This approach can be seen as an unbounded continuous cache. We make use of modern approximate search and quantization algorithms to stores millions of representations while searching them efficiently. We show that this approach helps adapting pretrained neural networks to novel data distribution or to tackle the so-called rare word problem.
Deconvolutional Paragraph Representation Learning,Learning latent representations from long text sequences is an important first step in many natural language processing applications. Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) have become a cornerstone for this challenging task. However, the quality of sentences during RNN-based decoding (reconstruction) decreases with the length of the text. We propose a sequence-to-sequence, purely convolutional and deconvolutional autoencoding framework that is free of the above issue, while also being computationally efficient. The proposed method is simple, easy to implement and can be leveraged as a building block for many applications. We show empirically that compared to RNNs, our framework is better at reconstructing and correcting long paragraphs. Quantitative evaluation on semi-supervised text classification and summarization tasks demonstrate the potential for better utilization of long unlabeled text data.
Analyzing Hidden Representations in End-to-End Automatic Speech Recognition Systems,Neural models have become ubiquitous in automatic speech recognition systems. While neural networks are typically used as acoustic models in more complex systems, recent studies have explored end-to-end speech recognition systems based on neural networks, which can be trained to directly predict text from input acoustic features. Although such systems are conceptually elegant and simpler than traditional systems, it is less obvious how to interpret the trained models.  In this work, we analyze the speech representations learned by a deep end-to-end model that is based on convolutional and recurrent layers, and trained with a connectionist temporal classification (CTC) loss. We use a pre-trained model to generate frame-level features which are given to a classifier that is trained on frame classification into phones. We evaluate representations from different layers of the deep model and compare their quality for predicting phone labels. Our experiments shed light on important aspects of the end-to-end model such as layer depth, model complexity, and other design choices.
Best of Both Worlds: Transferring Knowledge from Discriminative Learning to a Generative Visual Dialog Model,We present a novel training framework for neural sequence models, particularly for grounded dialog generation. The standard training paradigm for these models is maximum likelihood estimation (MLE), or minimizing the cross-entropy of the human responses. Across a variety of domains, a recurring problem with MLE trained generative neural dialog models (G) is that they tend to produce 'safe' and generic responses like "I don't know", "I can't tell"). In contrast, discriminative dialog models (D) that are trained to rank a list of candidate human responses outperform their generative counterparts; in terms of automatic metrics, diversity, and informativeness of the responses. However, D is not useful in practice since it can not be deployed to have real conversations with users.   Our work aims to achieve the best of both worlds -- the practical usefulness of G and the strong performance of D -- via knowledge transfer from D to G. Our primary contribution is an end-to-end trainable generative visual dialog model, where G receives gradients from D as a perceptual (not adversarial) loss of the sequence sampled from G. We leverage the recently proposed Gumbel-Softmax (GS) approximation to the discrete distribution -- specifically, a RNN is augmented with a sequence of GS samplers, which coupled with the straight-through gradient estimator enables end-to-end differentiability. We also introduce a stronger encoder for visual dialog, and employ a self-attention mechanism for answer encoding along with a metric learning loss to aid D in better capturing semantic similarities in answer responses. Overall, our proposed model outperforms state-of-the-art on the VisDial dataset by a significant margin (2.67% on recall@10). 
Teaching Machines to Describe Images with Natural Language Feedback,Robots will eventually be part of every household.  It is thus critical to enable algorithms to learn from and be guided by non-expert users. In this paper, we bring a human in the loop, and enable a human teacher to give feedback to a learning agent in the form of natural language. A descriptive sentence can provide a stronger learning signal than a numeric reward in that it can easily point to where the mistakes are and how to correct them. We focus on the problem of image captioning in which the quality of the output can easily be judged by non-experts.  We propose a phrase-based captioning model trained with policy gradients, and design a critic that provides reward to the learner by conditioning on the human-provided feedback. We show  that by exploiting descriptive feedback our model learns to perform better than when given independently written human captions.  
High-Order Attention Models for Visual Question Answering,The quest for algorithms which enable cognitive abilities is an important part of machine learning. A common trait in these recent cognitive-like tasks is that they  take into account different data modalities, e.g., visual and lingual. In this paper we propose a novel and generally applicable form of attention mechanism that learns high-order correlations between various data modalities. We show that high-order correlations effectively direct the appropriate attention to the relevant elements in the different data modalities that are required to solve the joint task. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our high-order attention mechanism on the task of visual question answering (VQA), where we achieve state-of-the-art performance on the standard VQA dataset.  
Visual Reference Resolution using Attention Memory for Visual Dialog,Visual dialog is a task of answering a series of inter-dependent questions given an input image, and often requires to resolve visual references among the questions. This problem is different from visual question answering (VQA), which relies on spatial attention ({\em a.k.a. visual grounding}) estimated from an image and question pair. We propose a novel attention mechanism that exploits visual attentions in the past to resolve the current reference in the visual dialog scenario. The proposed model is equipped with an associative attention memory storing a sequence of previous (attention, key) pairs. From this memory, the model retrieves previous attention, taking into account recency, that is most relevant for the current question, in order to resolve potentially ambiguous reference(s). The model then merges the retrieved attention with the tentative one to obtain the final attention for the current question; specifically, we use dynamic parameter prediction to combine the two attentions conditioned on the question. Through extensive experiments on a new synthetic visual dialog dataset, we show that our model significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art (by ~16 % points) in the situation where the visual reference resolution plays an important role. Moreover, the proposed model presents superior performance (~2 % points improvement) in the Visual Dialog dataset, despite having significantly fewer parameters than the baselines.
Semi-Supervised Learning for Optical Flow with Generative Adversarial Networks,Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have recently been applied to the optical flow estimation problem. As training the CNNs requires sufficiently large ground truth training data, existing approaches resort to synthetic, unrealistic datasets. On the other hand, unsupervised methods are capable of leveraging real-world videos for training where the ground truth flow fields are not available. These methods, however, rely on the fundamental assumptions of brightness constancy and spatial smoothness priors which do not hold near motion boundaries. In this paper, we propose to exploit unlabeled videos for semi-supervised learning of optical flow with a Generative Adversarial Network. Our key insight is that the adversarial loss can capture the structural patterns of flow warp errors without making explicit assumptions. Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed semi-supervised algorithm performs favorably against purely supervised and semi-supervised learning schemes.
Associative Embedding: End-to-End Learning for Joint Detection and Grouping,We introduce associative embedding, a novel method for supervising convolutional neural networks for the task of detection and grouping. A number of computer vision problems can be framed in this manner including multi-person pose estimation, instance segmentation, and multi-object tracking. Usually the grouping of detections is achieved with multi-stage pipelines, instead we propose an approach that teaches a network to simultaneously output detections and group assignments. This technique can be easily integrated into any state-of-the-art network architecture that produces pixel-wise predictions. We show how to apply this method to multi-person pose estimation and report state-of-the-art performance for multi-person pose on the MPII dataset and the MS-COCO dataset. 
Learning Deep Structured Multi-Scale Features using Attention-Gated CRFs for Contour Prediction,Recent works have shown that exploiting multi-scale representations deeply learned via convolutional neural networks (CNN) is of tremendous importance for accurate contour detection. This paper presents a novel approach for predicting contours which advances the state of the art in two fundamental aspects, i.e. multi-scale feature generation and fusion. Different from previous works directly considering multi-scale feature maps obtained from the inner layers of a primary CNN architecture, we introduce a hierarchical deep model which produces more rich and complementary representations. Furthermore, to refine and robustly fuse the representations learned at different scales, the novel Attention-Gated Conditional Random Fields (AG-CRFs) are proposed. The experiments ran on two publicly available datasets (BSDS500 and NYUDv2) demonstrate the effectiveness of the latent AG-CRF model and of the overall hierarchical framework.
Incorporating Side Information by Adaptive Convolution,Computer vision tasks often have side information available that is helpful to solve the task. For example, for crowd counting, the camera perspective (e.g., camera angle and height) gives a clue about the appearance and scale of people in the scene. While side information has been shown to be useful for counting systems using traditional hand-crafted features, it has not been fully utilized in counting systems based on deep learning. In order to incorporate the available side information, we propose an adaptive convolutional neural network (ACNN), where the convolution filter weights adapt to the current scene context via the side information. In particular, we model the filter weights as a low-dimensional manifold within the high-dimensional space of filter weights. The filter weights are generated using a learned ``filter manifold'' sub-network, whose input is the side information. With the help of side information and adaptive weights, the ACNN can disentangle the variations related to the side information, and extract discriminative features related to the current context (e.g. camera perspective, noise level, blur kernel parameters). We demonstrate the effectiveness of ACNN incorporating side information on 3 tasks: crowd counting, corrupted digit recognition, and image deblurring. Our experiments show that ACNN improves the performance compared to a plain CNN with a similar number of parameters. Since existing crowd counting datasets do not contain ground-truth side information, we collect a new dataset with the ground-truth camera angle and height as the side information.
Learning a Multi-View Stereo Machine,We show how to learn a multi-view stereopsis system. In contrast to recent learning based methods for 3D reconstruction, we leverage the underlying 3D geometry of the problem through feature projection and unprojection along viewing rays. By formulating these operations in a differentiable manner, we are able to learn our system end-to-end for the task of metric 3D reconstructions. End-to-end learning allows us to utilize priors about object shapes, enabling reconstruction of objects from much fewer images (even just a single image) than required by classical approaches as well as completion of unseen surfaces. We thoroughly evaluate our approach on the ShapeNet dataset and demonstrate the benefits over classical approaches and recent learning based methods.
Working hard to know your neighbor's margins: Local descriptor learning loss,We introduce a novel loss for learning local feature descriptors that is inspired by the SIFT matching scheme. We show that the  proposed loss that relies on the maximization of the distance between the closest positive and closest negative patches could replace more complex regularization methods which have been used in local descriptor learning; it  works well for both shallow and deep convolution network architectures. The resulting descriptor is compact -- it has the same dimensionality as SIFT (128), it shows state-of-art performance on matching, patch verification and retrieval benchmarks and it is fast to compute on a GPU.
Multimodal Image-to-Image Translation by Enforcing Bi-Cycle Consistency,Many image-to-image translation problems are ambiguous, with a single input image corresponding to multiple possible outputs. In this work, we aim to model a distribution of possible outputs in a conditional generative modeling setting. The ambiguity of the mapping is encoded in a low-dimensional latent vector, which can be randomly sampled at test time. A generator learns to map the input, along with the latent code, to an output. We explicitly enforce cycle consistency between the latent code and the output. Encouraging invertibility helps prevent a many-to-one mapping from the latent code to the output during training, also known as the problem of mode collapse, and helps produce more diverse results. We evaluate the relationship between perceptual realism and diversity of images generated by our method, and test on a variety of domains.
Deep supervised discrete hashing,With the rapid growth of image and video data on the web, hashing has been extensively studied for image or video search in recent years. Benefit from recent advances in deep learning, deep hashing methods have achieved promising results for image retrieval. However, there are some limitations of previous deep hashing methods (e.g., the semantic information is not fully exploited). In this paper, we develop a deep supervised discrete hashing algorithm based on the assumption that the learned binary codes should be ideal for classification. Both the pairwise label information and the classification information are used to learn the hash codes within one stream framework. We constrain the outputs of the last layer to be binary codes directly, which is rarely investigated in deep hashing algorithm. Because of the discrete nature of hash codes, an alternating minimization method is used to optimize the objective function. Experimental results have shown that our method outperforms current state-of-the-art methods on benchmark datasets.
SVD-Softmax: Fast Softmax Approximation on Large Vocabulary Neural Networks,We propose a fast approximation method of a softmax function with very large vocabulary using singular value decomposition (SVD). SVD-softmax targets fast and accurate probability estimation of topmost probable words during inference of recurrent neural network language models. The proposed method transforms the weight matrix used in the calculation of the logits by using SVD. The approximate probability of each word can be estimated with only a fraction of the SVD transformed matrix. We apply the technique on language modeling and neural machine translation, and present a guideline for good approximation. The algorithm requires only about 20% of arithmetic operations for 800K vocabulary case and shows more than x3 speedup on a GPU.
Hash Embeddings for Efficient Word Representations,We present hash embeddings, an efficient method for representing words in a continuous vector form. A hash embedding may be seen as an interpolation between a standard word embedding and a word embedding created using a random hash function (the hashing trick). In hash embeddings each token is represented by $k$ $d$-dimensional embeddings vectors and one $k$ dimensional weight vector. The final $d$ dimensional representation of the token is the product of the two. Rather than fitting the embedding vectors for each token these are selected by the hashing trick from a shared pool of $B$ embedding vectors.  Our experiments show that hash embeddings can easily deal with huge vocabularies consisting of millions tokens. When using a hash embedding there is no need to create a dictionary before training nor to perform any kind of vocabulary pruning after training. We show that models trained using hash embeddings exhibit at least the same level of performance as models trained using regular embeddings across a wide range of tasks. Furthermore, the number of parameters needed by such an embedding is only a fraction of what is required by a regular embedding. Since standard embeddings and embeddings constructed using the hashing trick are actually just special cases of a hash embedding, hash embeddings can be considered an extension and improvement over the existing regular embedding types. 
A Regularized Framework for Sparse and Structured Neural Attention,Modern neural networks are often augmented with an attention mechanism, which tells the network where to focus within the input. We propose in this paper a new framework for sparse and structured attention, building upon a max operator regularized with a strongly convex function. We show that this operator is differentiable and that its gradient defines a mapping from real values to probabilities, suitable as an attention mechanism. Our framework includes softmax and a slight generalization of the recently-proposed sparsemax as special cases. However, we also show how our framework can incorporate modern structured penalties, resulting in new attention mechanisms that focus on entire segments or groups of an input, encouraging parsimony and interpretability. We derive efficient algorithms to compute the forward and backward passes of these attention mechanisms, enabling their use in a neural network trained with backpropagation. To showcase their potential as a drop-in replacement for existing attention mechanisms, we evaluate them on three large-scale tasks: textual entailment, machine translation, and sentence summarization. Our attention mechanisms improve interpretability without sacrificing performance; notably, on textual entailment and summarization, we outperform the existing attention mechanisms based on softmax and sparsemax.
Attentional Pooling for Action Recognition,We introduce a simple yet surprisingly powerful model to incorporate attention in action recognition and human object interaction tasks. Our proposed attention module can be trained with or without extra supervision, and gives a sizable boost in accuracy while keeping the network size and computational cost nearly the same. It leads to significant improvements over state of the art base architecture on 3 standard action recognition benchmarks across still images and videos, and establishes new state of the art on MPII (12.5% relative improvement) and HMDB (RGB) datasets. We also perform an extensive analysis of our attention module both empirically and analytically. In terms of the latter, we introduce a novel derivation of bottom-up and top-down attention as low-rank approximations of bilinear pooling methods (typically used for fine-grained classification). From this perspective, our attention formulation suggests a novel characterization of action recognition as a fine-grained recognition problem.
Plan, Attend, Generate: Planning for Sequence-to-Sequence Models,We investigate the integration of a planning mechanism into encoder-decoder architectures with attention. We present a model that plans ahead when it computes alignments between the input and output sequences, constructing a matrix of proposed future alignments and a commitment vector that governs whether to follow or recompute the plan. This mechanism is inspired by the strategic attentive reader and writer (STRAW) model. Our proposed model is end-to-end trainable with fully differentiable operations. We show that it outperforms a strong baseline on character-level translation tasks from WMT'15 and the algorithmic task of finding Eulerian circuits of graphs, among others. The analysis demonstrates that the model computes qualitatively intuitive alignments, converges faster than the baselines, and achieves superior performance with fewer parameters. 
Dilated Recurrent Neural Networks,Notoriously, learning with recurrent neural networks (RNNs) on long sequences is a difficult task. There are three major challenges: 1) extracting complex dependencies, 2) vanishing and exploding gradients, and 3) efficient parallelization.  In this paper, we introduce a simple yet effective RNN connection structure, the DILATEDRNN, which simultaneously tackles all these challenges. The proposed architecture is characterized by multi-resolution dilated recurrent skip connections and can be combined flexibly with different RNN cells.  Moreover, the DILATEDRNN reduces the number of parameters and enhances training efficiency significantly, while matching state-of-the-art performance (even with Vanilla RNN cells) in tasks involving very long-term dependencies. To provide a theory-based quantification of the architectures advantages, we introduce a memory capacity measure - the mean recurrent length, which is more suitable for RNNs with long skip connections than existing measures. We rigorously prove the advantages of the DILATEDRNN over other recurrent neural architectures.
Thalamus Gated Recurrent Modules,We propose a deep learning model inspired by neuroscience theories of communication within the neocortex. Our model consists of recurrent modules that send features via a routing center, endowing the neural modules with the flexibility to share features over multiple time steps. We show that our model learns to route information hierarchically, processing input data by a chain of modules. We observe common architectures, such as feed forward neural networks and skip connections, emerging as special cases of our architecture, while novel connectivity patterns are learned for the text8 compression task. Our model outperforms multi-layer recurrent networks on three sequential tasks.
Wasserstein Learning of Deep Generative Point Process Models,Point processes are becoming very popular in modeling asynchronous sequential data due to their sound mathematical foundation and strength in modeling a variety of real-world phenomena. Currently, they are often characterized via intensity function which limits model's expressiveness due to unrealistic assumptions on its parametric form used in practice. Furthermore, they are learned via maximum likelihood approach which is prone to failure in multi-modal distributions of sequences. In this paper, we propose an intensity-free approach for point processes modeling that transforms nuisance processes to a target one. Furthermore, we train the model using a likelihood-free leveraging Wasserstein distance between point processes. Experiments on various synthetic and real-world data substantiate the superiority of the proposed point process model over conventional ones.
Stabilizing Training of Generative Adversarial Networks through Regularization,Deep generative models based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have demonstrated impressive sample quality but in order to work they require a careful choice of architecture, parameter initialization, and selection of hyper-parameters. This fragility is in part due to a dimensional mismatch between the model distribution and the true distribution, causing their density ratio and the associated f -divergence to be undefined. We overcome this fundamental limitation and propose a new regularization approach with low computational cost that yields a stable GAN training procedure. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on several datasets including common benchmark image generation tasks. Our approach turns GAN models into reliable building blocks for deep learning.
Neural Variational Inference and Learning in Undirected Graphical Models,Many problems in machine learning are naturally expressed in the language of undirected graphical models. Here, we propose learning and inference algorithms for undirected models that optimize a variational approximation to the log-likelihood of the model. Central to our approach is an upper bound on the log-partition function parametrized by a function q that we express as a flexible neural network. Our bound enables us to accurately track the partition function during learning, to speed-up sampling, and to train a broad class of powerful hybrid directed/undirected models via a unified variational inference framework. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on several popular generative modeling datasets.
Adversarial Symmetric Variational Autoencoder,A new form of variational autoencoder (VAE) is developed, in which the joint distribution of data and codes is considered in two (symmetric) forms: (i) from observed data fed through the encoder to yield codes, and (ii) from latent codes drawn from a simple prior and propagated through the decoder to manifest data. Lower bounds are learned for marginal log-likelihood fits observed data and latent codes. When learning with the variational bound, one seeks to minimize the symmetric Kullback-Leibler divergence of joint density functions from (i) and (ii), while simultaneously seeking to maximize the two marginal log-likelihoods. To facilitate learning, a new form of adversarial training is developed. An extensive set of experiments is performed, in which we demonstrate state-of-the-art data reconstruction and generation on several image benchmarks datasets.
Diverse and Accurate Image Description Using a Variational Auto-Encoder with an Additive Gaussian Encoding Space,This paper proposes a method to generate image descriptions using a conditional variational auto-encoder (CVAE) with a data-dependent Gaussian prior on the encoding space. Standard CVAEs with a fixed Gaussian prior easily collapse and generate descriptions with little variability. Our approach addresses this problem by linearly combining multiple Gaussian priors based on the semantic content of the image, increasing the flexibility and representational power of the generative model. We evaluate this Additive Gaussian CVAE (AG-CVAE) approach on the MSCOCO dataset and show that it produces captions that are both more diverse and more accurate than a strong LSTM baseline and other CVAE variants.
Z-Forcing: Training Stochastic Recurrent Networks,Many efforts have been devoted to incorporate stochastic latent variables in sequential neural models, such as recurrent neural networks (RNNs). RNNs with latent variables have been successful in capturing the variability observed in natural structured data such as speech. In this work, we propose a novel recurrent latent variable model, which unifies successful ideas from recently proposed architectures. In our model, each step in the sequence is associated with a latent variable that is used to condition the recurrent dynamics for future steps. Our model is trained through amortised variational inference where the inference network is augmented with a RNN that runs backward through the sequence. In addition to next-step prediction, we add an auxiliary cost to the latent variables which forces them to reconstruct the state of the backward recurrent network. This provides the latent variables with a task-independent objective that enhances the performance of the overall model. Although being conceptually simple, our model achieves state-of-the-art results on standard speech benchmarks such as TIMIT and BLIZZARD. Finally, we apply our model on language modeling in the IMDB dataset. The auxiliary cost is crucial for learning interpretable latent variables in this setting and we show that the regular evidence lower-bound  significantly underestimates log-likelihood of the model, thus encouraging future works to compare likelihoods of their methods using tighter bounds.
One-Shot Imitation Learning,Imitation learning has been commonly applied to solve different tasks in isolation. This usually requires either careful feature engineering, or a significant number of samples. This is far from what we desire: ideally, robots should be able to learn from very few demonstrations of any given task, and instantly generalize to new situations of the same task, without requiring task-specific engineering. In this paper, we propose a meta-learning framework for achieving such capability, which we call one-shot imitation learning.  Specifically, we consider the setting where there is a very large (maybe infinite) set of tasks, and each task has many instantiations.  For example, a task could be to stack all blocks on a table into a single tower, another task could be to place all blocks on a table into two-block towers, etc. In each case, different instances of the task would consist of different sets of blocks with different initial states.  At training time, our algorithm is presented with pairs of demonstrations for a subset of all tasks.  A neural net is trained that takes as input one demonstration and the current state (which initially is the initial state of the other demonstration of the pair), and outputs an action with the goal that the resulting sequence of states and actions matches as closely as possible with the second demonstration. At test time, a demonstration of a single instance of a new task is presented, and the neural net is expected to perform well on new instances of this new task. Our experiments show that the use of soft attention allows the model to generalize to conditions and tasks unseen in the training data. We anticipate that by training this model on a much greater variety of tasks and settings, we will obtain a general system that can turn any demonstrations into robust policies that can accomplish an overwhelming variety of tasks.
Reconstruct & Crush Network,This article introduces an energy-based model that is adversarial regarding data: it minimizes the energy for a given data distribution (the positive samples) while maximizing the energy for another given data distribution (the negative or unlabeled samples). The model is especially instantiated with autoencoders where the energy, represented by the reconstruction error, provides a general distance measure for unknown data. The resulting neural network thus learns to reconstruct data from the first distribution while crushing data from the second distribution. This solution can handle different problems such as Positive and Unlabeled (PU) learning or covariate shift, especially with imbalanced data. Using autoencoders allows handling a large variety of data, such as images, text or even dialogues. Our experiments show the flexibility of the proposed approach in dealing with different types of data in different settings: images with CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 (not-in-training setting), text with Amazon reviews (PU learning) and dialogues with Facebook bAbI (next response classification and dialogue completion).
Fader Networks: Generating Image Variations by Sliding Attribute Values,This paper introduces a new encoder-decoder architecture that is trained to reconstruct images by disentangling the salient information of the image and the values of attributes directly in the latent space. As a result, after training, our model can generate different realistic versions of an input image by varying the attribute values. By using continuous attribute values, we can choose how much a specific attribute is perceivable in the generated image. This property could allow for applications where users can modify an image using sliding knobs, like {\it faders} on a mixing console, to change the facial expression of a portrait, or to update the color of some objects. Compared to the state-of-the-art which mostly relies on training adversarial networks in pixel space by altering attribute values at train time, our approach results in much simpler training schemes and nicely scales to multiple attributes. We present evidence that our model can significantly change the perceived value of the attributes while preserving the naturalness of images.
PredRNN: Recurrent Neural Networks for Video Prediction using Spatiotemporal LSTMs,The predictive learning of video sequences aims to generate future images by learning from the historical frames, where spatial appearance and temporal variations are two crucial structures. This paper models these structures by presenting a predictive recurrent neural network (PredRNN). This architecture is enlightened by the idea that a video prediction system should memorize both spatial appearance and temporal variations in a unified memory pool. Concretely, memory states are no longer constrained inside each LSTM unit. Instead, they are allowed to zigzag in two directions: across stacked RNN layers vertically and through all time steps horizontally. The core of this network is a new spatiotemporal LSTM (ST-LSTM) unit that extracts and memorizes spatial and temporal video representations simultaneously. PredRNN achieves the state-of-the-art prediction performance on two standard video datasets and is believed to be a more general framework, that can be further extended to other predictive learning tasks beyond video prediction. 
Multi-agent Predictive Modeling with Attentional CommNets,Multi-agent predictive modeling is an essential step for understanding physical, social and team-play systems. Recently, Interaction Networks (INs) were proposed for the task of modeling multi-agent physical systems, INs scale with the number of interactions in the system (typically quadratic or higher order in the number of agents). In this paper we introduce VAIN, an Attentional CommNet for multi-agent predictive modeling that scales linearly with the number of agents. We show that VAIN is effective for multi-agent predictive modeling and the representation learned is transferable to learning new data-poor tasks. Our method is evaluated on tasks from challenging multi-agent prediction domains: chess and soccer, and outperforms competing multi-agent approaches. 
Real Time Image Saliency for Black Box Classifiers,In this work we develop a fast saliency detection method that can be applied to any differentiable image classifier. We train a masking model to manipulate the scores of the classifier by masking salient parts of the input image. Our model generalises well to unseen images and requires a single forward pass to perform saliency detection, therefore suitable for use in real-time systems. We test our approach on Cifar-10 and ImageNet datasets and show that the produced saliency maps are easily interpretable, sharp, and free of artifacts. We suggest a new metric for saliency and test our method on the ImageNet object localisation task. We achieve results outperforming other weakly supervised methods.
Prototypical Networks for Few-shot Learning,We propose prototypical networks for the problem of few-shot classification, where a classifier must generalize to new classes not seen in the training set, given only a small number of examples of each new class. Prototypical networks learn a metric space in which classification can be performed by computing distances to prototype representations of each class. Compared to recent approaches for few-shot learning, they reflect a simpler inductive bias that is beneficial in this limited-data regime, and achieve excellent results. We provide an analysis showing that some simple design decisions can yield substantial improvements over recent approaches involving complicated architectural choices and meta-learning. We further extend prototypical networks to zero-shot learning and achieve state-of-the-art results on the CU-Birds dataset.
Few-Shot Learning Through an Information Retrieval  Lens,Few-shot learning refers to understanding new concepts from only a few examples. We propose an information retrieval-inspired approach for this problem that is motivated by the increased importance of maximally leveraging all the available information in this low-data regime. We define a training objective that aims to extract as much information as possible from each training batch by effectively optimizing over all relative orderings of the batch points simultaneously. In particular, we view each batch point as a `query' that ranks the remaining ones based on its predicted relevance to them and we define a model in the framework of structured prediction to optimize mean Average Precision over these rankings. Our method produces state-of-the-art results on standard benchmarks for few-shot learning.
The Reversible Residual Network: Backpropagation Without Storing Activations,Residual Networks (ResNets) have demonstrated significant improvement over traditional Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) on image classification, increasing in performance as networks grow both deeper and wider.  However, memory consumption becomes a bottleneck as one needs to store all the intermediate activations for calculating gradients using backpropagation. In this work, we present the Reversible Residual Network (RevNet), a variant of ResNets where each layer's activations can be reconstructed exactly from the next layer's. Therefore, the activations for most layers need not be stored in memory during backprop. We demonstrate the effectiveness of RevNets on CIFAR and ImageNet, establishing nearly identical performance to equally-sized ResNets, with activation storage requirements independent of depth. 
Gated Recurrent Convolution Neural Network for OCR,Optical Character Recognition (OCR) aims to recognize text in natural images and it is widely researched in the computer vision community. In this paper, we present a new architecture named Gated Recurrent Convolution Layer (GRCL) for this challenge. The GRCL is constructed by adding gate to Recurrent Convolution Layer (RCL). We find that the equipped gate can control the context modulation in RCL and balancing the feed-forward component as well as the recurrent component. In addition, we build a Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (BLSTM) for sequence modelling and we test several variants of BLSTM to find the most suitable architecture for OCR. Finally, we combine Gated Recurrent Convolution Neural Network (GRCNN) with BLSTM to recognize text in the natural image. The GRCNN-BLSTM can be trained end to end, and it outperforms the benchmark datasets in terms of the state-of-art results, including the IIIT-5K, Street View Text (SVT) and ICDAR.
Learning Efficient Object Detection Models with Knowledge Distillation,Despite significant accuracy improvement in convolutional neural networks (CNN) based object detectors, they often require prohibitive runtimes to process an image for real-time applications. State-of-the-art models often use very deep networks with a large number of floating point operations. Efforts such as model compression learn compact models with fewer number of parameters, but with much reduced accuracy. In this work, we propose a new framework to learn compact and fast object detection networks with improved accuracy using knowledge distillation \cite{hinton2015distilling} and hint learning \cite{romero2014fitnets}. Although knowledge distillation has demonstrated excellent improvements for simpler classification setups, the complexity of detection poses new challenges in the form of regression, region proposals and less voluminous labels. We address this through several innovations such as a weighted cross-entropy loss to address class imbalance, a teacher bounded loss to handle the regression component and adaptation layers to better learn from intermediate teacher distributions. We conduct comprehensive empirical evaluation with different distillation configurations over multiple datasets including PASCAL, KITTI, ILSVRC and MS-COCO. Our results show consistent improvement in accuracy-speed trade-offs for modern multi-class detection models. 
Active Bias: Training a More Accurate Neural Network by Emphasizing High Variance Samples,Self-paced learning and hard example mining re-weight training instances to improve learning accuracy. This paper presents two improved alternatives based on lightweight estimates of sample uncertainty in stochastic gradient descent (SGD): the variance in predicted probability of the correct class across iterations of mini-batch SGD, and the proximity of the correct class probability to the decision threshold. Extensive experimental results on six datasets show that our methods reliably improve accuracy in various network architectures, including additional gains on top of other popular training techniques, such as residual learning, momentum, ADAM, batch normalization, dropout, and distillation.
Langevin Dynamics with Continuous Tempering for Training Deep Neural Networks,Minimizing non-convex and high-dimensional objective functions is challenging, especially when training modern deep neural networks.  In this paper, a novel approach is proposed which divides the training process into two consecutive phases to obtain better generalization performance: Bayesian sampling and stochastic optimization. The first phase is to explore the energy landscape and to capture the `fat'' modes; and the second one is to fine-tune the parameter learned from the first phase. In the Bayesian learning phase, we apply continuous tempering and stochastic approximation into the Langevin dynamics to create an efficient and effective sampler, in which the temperature is adjusted automatically according to the designed ``temperature dynamics''.  These strategies can overcome the challenge of early trapping into bad local minima and have achieved remarkable improvements in various types of neural networks as shown in our theoretical analysis and empirical experiments.
Differentiable Learning of Logical Rules for Knowledge Base Reasoning,We study the problem of learning probabilistic first-order logical rules for knowledge base reasoning. This learning problem is difficult because it requires learning the parameters in a continuous space as well as the structure in a discrete space. We propose a framework, Neural Logic Programming, that combines the parameter and structure learning of first-order logical rules in an end-to-end differentiable model. This approach is inspired by a recently-developed differentiable logic called TensorLog, where inference tasks can be compiled into sequences of differentiable operations. We design a neural controller system that learns to compose these operations. Empirically, our method obtains state-of-the-art results on multiple knowledge base benchmark datasets, including Freebase and WikiMovies. 
Deliberation Networks: Sequence Generation Beyond One-Pass Decoding,The encoder-decoder framework has achieved promising progress for many sequence generation tasks, including machine translation, text summarization, Q\&A, dialog system, image captioning, {\em etc}. Such a framework adopts an one-pass forward process while decoding and generating a sequence, but lacks the deliberation process: A generated sequence is directly used as final output without further polishing. However, deliberation is a common behavior in human's daily life like reading news and writing papers/articles/books. In this work, we introduce the deliberation process into the encoder-decoder framework and propose deliberation networks for sequence generation. A deliberation network has two levels of decoders, where the first-pass decoder generates a raw sequence and the second-pass decoder polishes and refines the raw sentence with deliberation. Since the second-pass deliberation decoder has an overall picture about what the sequence to be generated might be, it has the potential to generate a better sequence by looking into future words in the raw sentence. Experiments on neural machine translation and text summarization demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed deliberation networks.
Neural Program Meta-Induction,Most recently proposed methods for Neural Program induction work under the assumption of having a large set of input/output (I/O) examples for learning any given input-output mapping. This paper aims to address the problem of data and computation efficiency of program induction by leveraging information from related tasks. Specifically, we propose two novel approaches for cross-task knowledge transfer to improve program induction in limited-data scenarios. In our first proposal, portfolio adaptation, a set of induction models is pretrained on a set of related tasks, and the best model is adapted towards the new task using transfer learning. In our second approach, meta program induction, a $k$-shot learning approach is used to make a model generalize to new tasks without additional training. To test the efficacy of our methods, we constructed a new benchmark of programs written in the Karel programming language. Using an extensive experimental evaluation on the Karel benchmark, we demonstrate that our proposals dramatically outperform the baseline induction method that does not use knowledge transfer. We also analyze the relative performance of the two approaches and study conditions in which they perform best. In particular, meta induction outperforms all existing approaches under extreme data sparsity (when a very small number of examples are available), i.e., fewer than ten. As the number of available I/O examples increase (i.e. a thousand or more), portfolio adapted program induction becomes the best approach. For intermediate data sizes, we demonstrate that the combined method of adapted meta program induction has the strongest performance. 
Saliency-based Sequential Image Attention with Multiset Prediction,Humans process visual scenes selectively and sequentially using attention. Central to models of human visual attention is the saliency map. We propose a hierarchical visual architecture that operates on a saliency map and uses a novel attention mechanism to sequentially focus on salient regions and take additional glimpses within those regions. The architecture is motivated by human visual attention, and is used for multi-label image classification on a novel multiset task, demonstrating that it achieves high precision and recall while localizing objects with its attention. Unlike conventional multi-label image classification models, the model supports multiset prediction due to a reinforcement-learning based training process that allows for arbitrary label permutation and multiple instances per label.
Protein Interface Prediction using Graph Convolutional Networks,We present a general framework for graph convolution for classification tasks over labeled graphs with node and edge features. By performing a convolution operation over a neighborhood of a node of interest, we are able to stack multiple layers of convolution and learn effective latent representations that integrate information across the input graph. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on prediction of interfaces between proteins, a challenging problem with important applications in drug discovery and design. The proposed approach achieves accuracy that is better than the state-of-the-art SVM method in this task, and also outperforms the recently proposed diffusion-convolution form of graph convolution.
Dual-Agent GANs for Photorealistic and Identity Preserving Profile Face Synthesis,Synthesizing realistic profile faces is promising for more efficiently  training deep pose-invariant models for large-scale unconstrained face recognition, by populating samples with extreme poses and avoiding tedious annotations. However, learning from synthetic faces may not achieve the desired performance due to the discrepancy between distributions of the synthetic and real face images. To narrow this gap, we propose a Dual-Agent Generative Adversarial Network (DA-GAN) model, which can improve the realism of a face simulator's output using unlabeled real faces, while preserving the identity information during the realism refinement. The dual agents are specifically designed for distinguishing real v.s. fake and identities simultaneously. In particular, we employ an off-the-shelf 3D face model as a simulator to generate profile face images with varying poses. DA-GAN leverages a fully convolutional network as the generator to generate high-resolution images and an auto-encoder as the discriminator with the dual agents. Besides the novel architecture, we make several key modifications to the standard GAN to preserve pose and texture, preserve identity and stabilize training process: (i) a pose perception loss; (ii) an identity perception loss; (iii) an adversarial loss with a boundary equilibrium regularization term. Experimental results show that DA-GAN not only presents compelling perceptual results but also significantly outperforms state-of-the-arts on the large-scale and challenging NIST IJB-A unconstrained face recognition benchmark. In addition, the proposed DA-GAN is also promising as a new approach for solving generic transfer learning problems more effectively.
Toward Robustness against Label Noise in Training Deep Discriminative Neural Networks,Collecting large training datasets, annotated with high quality labels, is a costly process. This paper proposes a novel framework for training deep convolutional neural networks from noisy labeled datasets. The problem is formulated using an undirected graphical model that represents the relationship between noisy and clean labels, trained in a semi-supervised setting. In the proposed structure, the inference over latent clean labels is tractable and is regularized during training using auxiliary sources of information. The proposed model is applied to the image labeling problem and is shown to be effective in labeling unseen images as well as reducing label noise in training on CIFAR-10 and MS COCO datasets.
Soft-to-Hard Vector Quantization for End-to-End Learning Compressible Representations,We present a new approach to learn compressible representations in deep architectures with an end-to-end training strategy. Our method is based on a soft (continuous) relaxation of quantization and entropy, which we anneal to their discrete counterparts throughout training. We showcase this method for two challenging applications: Image compression and neural network compression. While these tasks have typically been approached with different methods, our soft-to-hard quantization approach gives results competitive with the state-of-the-art for both.
Selective Classification for Deep Neural Networks,Selective classification techniques (also known as reject option) have not yet been considered in the context of deep neural networks (DNNs). These techniques can potentially significantly improve DNNs prediction performance by trading-off coverage. In this paper we propose a method to construct a selective classifier given a trained neural network. Our method allows a user to set a desired risk level. At test time, the classifier rejects instances as needed, to grant the desired risk (with high probability). Empirical results over CIFAR and ImageNet convincingly demonstrate the viability of our method, which opens up possibilities to operate DNNs in mission-critical applications. For example, using our method an unprecedented 2% error in top-5 ImageNet classification can be guaranteed with probability 99.9%, with almost 60% test coverage.
Deep Lattice Networks and Partial Monotonic Functions,We propose learning deep models that are monotonic with respect to a user-specified set of inputs by alternating layers of linear embeddings, ensembles of lattices, and calibrators (piecewise linear functions), with appropriate constraints for monotonicity, and jointly training the resulting network. We implement the layers and projections with new computational graph nodes in TensorFlow and use the ADAM optimizer and batched stochastic gradients. Experiments on benchmark and real-world datasets show that six-layer monotonic deep lattice networks achieve state-of-the art performance for classification and regression with monotonicity guarantees. 
Learning to Prune Deep Neural Networks via Layer-wise Optimal Brain Surgeon,How to develop slim and accurate deep neural networks has become crucial for real-world applications, especially for those employed in embedded systems. Though previous work along this research line has shown some promising results, most existing methods either fail to significantly compress a well-trained deep network or require a heavy retraining process for the pruned deep network to re-boost its prediction performance. In this paper, we propose a new layer-wise pruning method for deep neural networks. In our proposed method, parameters of each individual layer are pruned independently based on second order derivatives of a layer-wise error function with respect to the corresponding parameters. We prove that the final prediction performance drop after pruning is bounded by a linear combination of the reconstructed errors caused at each layer. Therefore, there is a guarantee that one only needs to perform a light retraining process on the pruned network to resume its original prediction performance. We conduct extensive experiments on benchmark datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of our pruning method compared with several state-of-the-art baseline methods.  
Bayesian Compression for Deep Learning,Compression and computational efficiency in deep learning have become a problem of great significance. In this work, we argue that the most principled and effective way to attack this problem is by taking a Bayesian point of view, where through sparsity inducing priors we prune large parts of the network. We introduce two novelties in this paper: 1) we use hierarchical priors to prune nodes instead of individual weights, and 2) we use the posterior uncertainties to determine the optimal fixed point precision to encode the weights. Both factors significantly contribute to achieving the state of the art in terms of compression rates, while still staying competitive with methods designed to optimize for speed or energy efficiency.   
Lower bounds on the robustness to adversarial perturbations,The input-output mappings learned by state-of-the-art neural networks are significantly discontinuous. It is possible to cause a neural network used for image recognition to misclassify its input by applying very specific, hardly perceptible perturbations to the input, called adversarial perturbations. Many hypotheses have been proposed to explain the existence of these peculiar samples as well as several methods to mitigate them. A proven explanation remains elusive, however. In this work, we take steps towards a formal characterization of adversarial perturbations by deriving lower bounds on the magnitudes of perturbations necessary to change the classification of neural networks. The bounds are experimentally verified on the MNIST and CIFAR-10 data sets.
Sobolev Training for Neural Networks,At the heart of deep learning we aim to use neural networks as function approximators -  training them to produce outputs from inputs in emulation of a ground truth function or data creation process. In many cases we only have access to input-output pairs from the ground truth, however it is becoming more common to have access to derivatives of the target output with respect to the input -- for example when the ground truth function is itself a neural network such as in network compression or distillation.  Generally these target derivatives are not computed, or are ignored. This paper introduces Sobolev Training for neural networks, which is a method for incorporating these target derivatives in addition the to target values while training. By optimising neural networks to not only approximate the functions outputs but also the functions derivatives we encode additional information about the target function within the parameters of the neural network. Thereby we can improve the quality of our predictors, as well as the data-efficiency and generalization capabilities of our learned function approximation. We provide theoretical justifications for such an approach as well as examples of empirical evidence on three distinct domains: regression on classical optimisation datasets, distilling policies of an agent playing Atari, and on large-scale applications of synthetic gradients.  In all three domains the use of Sobolev Training, employing target derivatives in addition to target values, results in models with higher accuracy and stronger generalisation.
Structured Bayesian Pruning via Log-Normal Multiplicative Noise,Dropout-based regularization methods can be regarded as injecting random noise with pre-defined magnitude to different parts of the neural network during training. It was recently shown that Bayesian dropout procedure not only improves generalization but also leads to extremely sparse neural architectures by automatically setting the individual noise magnitude per weight. However, this sparsity can hardly be used for acceleration since it is unstructured. In the paper, we propose a new Bayesian model that takes into account the computational structure of neural networks and provides structured sparsity, e.g. removes neurons and/or convolutional channels in CNNs. To do this we inject noise to the neurons outputs while keeping the weights unregularized. We establish the probabilistic model with a proper truncated log-uniform prior over the noise and truncated log-normal variational approximation that ensures that the KL-term in the evidence lower bound is computed in closed-form. The model leads to structured sparsity by removing elements with a low SNR from the computation graph and provides significant acceleration on a number of deep neural architectures. The model is very easy to implement as it only corresponds to the addition of one dropout-like layer in computation graph.
Population Matching Discrepancy and Applications in Deep Learning,A differentiable estimation of the distance between two distributions based on samples is important for many deep learning tasks. One such estimation  is maximum mean discrepancy (MMD). However, MMD suffers from its sensitive kernel bandwidth hyper-parameter, weak gradients, and large mini-batch size when used as a training objective. In this paper, we propose population matching discrepancy (PMD) for estimating the distribution distance based on samples, as well as an algorithm to learn the parameters of the distributions using PMD as an objective. PMD is defined as the minimum weight matching of sample populations from each distribution, and we prove that PMD is a strongly consistent estimator of the first Wasserstein metric. We apply PMD to two deep learning tasks, domain adaptation and generative modeling. Empirical results demonstrate that PMD overcomes the aforementioned drawbacks of MMD, and outperforms MMD on both tasks in terms of the performance as well as the convergence speed.
Investigating the learning dynamics of deep neural networks using random matrix theory,There is evidence that a well-conditioned singular value distribution of the input/output Jacobian can lead to substantial improvements in training performance for deep neural networks. For deep linear networks there is conclusive evidence that initializing using orthogonal random matrices can lead to dramatic improvements to the training. However, the benefit of such initialization strategies has proven much less obvious for more realistic nonlinear networks. We use random matrix theory to study the conditioning of the Jacobian for nonlinear neural networks after random initialization. We show that the singular value distribution of the Jacobian is sensitive not only to the distribution of weights but also to the nonlinearity. Surprisingly we find that the benefit of orthogonal initialization is negligible for rectified linear networks but substantial for tanh networks. We provide a rule of thumb for initializing tanh networks such that they display dynamical isometry over their full depth. Finally, we perform experiments on MNIST and CIFAR10 using a wide array of optimizers. We show conclusively that the singular value distribution of the Jacobian is intimately related to learning dynamics. Finally, we show that the spectral density of the Jacobian evolves relatively slowly during training so good initialization affects learning dynamics far from the initial setting of the weights.
Robust Imitation of Diverse Behaviors,Deep generative models have recently shown great promise in imitation learning for motor control. Given enough data, even supervised approaches can do one-shot imitation learning; however, they are vulnerable to cascading failures when the agent trajectory diverges from the demonstrations. Compared to purely supervised methods, Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning (GAIL) can learn more robust controllers from fewer demonstrations, but is inherently mode-seeking and more difficult to train. In this paper, we show how to combine the favourable aspects of these two approaches. The base of our model is a new type of variational autoencoder on demonstration trajectories that learns semantic policy embeddings. We show that these embeddings can be learned on a 9 DoF Jaco robot arm in reaching tasks, and then smoothly interpolated with a resulting smooth interpolation of reaching behavior. Leveraging these policy representations, we develop a new version of GAIL that (1) is much more robust than the purely-supervised controller, especially with few demonstrations, and (2) avoids mode collapse, capturing many diverse behaviors when GAIL on its own does not. We demonstrate our approach on learning diverse gaits from demonstration on a 2D biped and a 62 DoF 3D humanoid in the MuJoCo physics environment.
Question Asking as Program Generation,A hallmark of human intelligence is the ability to ask rich, creative, and revealing questions. Here we introduce a cognitive model capable of constructing human-like questions. Our approach treats questions as formal programs that, when executed on the state of the world, output an answer. The model specifies a probability distribution over a complex, compositional space of programs, favoring concise programs that help the agent learn in the current context. We evaluate our approach by modeling the types of open-ended questions generated by humans who were attempting to learn about an ambiguous situation in a game.  We find that our model predicts what questions people will ask, and can generalize to novel situations in creative ways. In addition, we compare a number of model variants to assess which features are critical for producing human-like questions.
Variational Laws of Visual Attention for Dynamic Scenes,Computational models of visual attention are at the crossroad of disciplines like cognitive science, computational neuroscience, and computer vision. This paper proposes an approach that is based on the principle that there are foundational laws that drive the emergence of visual attention. We devise variational laws of the eye-movement that rely on a generalized view of the Least Action Principle in physics. The potential energy  captures details  as well as peripheral visual features, while the kinetic energy corresponds with the classic interpretation in analytic mechanics. In addition, the Lagrangian contains a brightness invariance term, which characterizes significantly the scanpath trajectories. We obtain differential equations of visual attention as the stationary point of the generalized action, and  propose an algorithm to estimate the model parameters.  Finally, we report experimental results to validate the model in tasks of saliency detection.
Flexible statistical inference for mechanistic models of neural dynamics,Mechanistic models of single-neuron dynamics have been extensively studied in computational neuroscience. However, identifying which models can quantitatively reproduce empirically measured data has been challenging. We propose to overcome this limitation by using likelihood-free inference approaches (also known as Approximate Bayesian Computation, ABC) to perform full Bayesian inference on single-neuron models. Our approach builds on recent advances in ABC by learning a neural network which maps features of the observed data to the posterior distribution over parameters. We learn a Bayesian mixture-density network approximating the posterior over multiple rounds of adaptively chosen simulations. Furthermore, we propose an efficient approach for handling missing features and parameter settings for which the simulator fails -- both being prevalent issues in models of neural dynamics -- as well as a strategy for automatically learning relevant features using recurrent neural networks. On synthetic data, our approach efficiently estimates posterior distributions and recovers ground-truth parameters. On in-vitro recordings of membrane voltages, we recover multivariate posteriors over biophysical parameters, which yield model-predicted voltage traces that accurately match empirical data. Our approach will enable neuroscientists to perform Bayesian inference on complex neuron models without having to design model-specific algorithms, closing the gap between mechanistic and statistical approaches to single-neuron modelling.
Training recurrent networks to generate hypotheses about how the brain solves hard navigation problems,Self-localization during navigation with noisy sensors in an ambiguous world is computationally challenging, yet animals and humans excel at it. In robotics, {\em Simultaneous Location and Mapping} (SLAM) algorithms solve this problem though joint sequential probabilistic inference of their own coordinates and those of external spatial landmarks. We generate the first neural solution to the SLAM problem by training recurrent LSTM networks to perform a set of hard 2D navigation tasks that require generalization to completely novel trajectories and environments. Our goal is to make sense of how the diverse phenomenology in the brain's spatial navigation circuits is related to their function. We show that the hidden unit representations exhibit several key properties of hippocampal place cells, including stable tuning curves that remap between environments. Our result is also a proof of concept for end-to-end-learning of a SLAM algorithm using recurrent networks, and a demonstration of why this approach may have some advantages for robotic SLAM.
Neural system identification for large populations separating "what" and "where",Neuroscientists classify neurons into different types that perform similar computations at different locations in the visual field. Traditional neural system identification methods do not capitalize on this separation of "what" and "where".  Learning deep convolutional feature spaces shared among many neurons provides an exciting path forward, but the architectural design needs to account for data limitations: While new experimental techniques enable recordings from thousands of neurons, experimental time is limited so that one can sample only a small fraction of each neuron's response space.  Here, we show that a major bottleneck for fitting convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to neural data is the estimation of the individual receptive field locations -- a problem that has been scratched only at the surface thus far. We propose a CNN architecture with a sparse pooling layer factorizing the spatial (where) and feature (what) dimensions. Our network scales well to thousands of neurons and short recordings and can be trained end-to-end. We explore this architecture on ground-truth data to explore the challenges and limitations of CNN-based system identification. Moreover, we show that our network model outperforms the current state-of-the art system identification model of mouse primary visual cortex on a publicly available dataset.
A simple model of recognition and recall memory,We show that several striking differences in memory performance between recognition and recall tasks are explained by an ecological bias endemic in classic memory experiments - that such experiments universally involve more stimuli than retrieval cues. We show that while it is sensible to think of recall as simply retrieving items when probed with a cue - typically the item list itself -  it is better to think of recognition as retrieving cues when probed with items. To test this theory, by manipulating the number of items and cues in a memory experiment, we show a crossover effect in memory performance within subjects such that recognition performance is superior to recall performance when the number of items is greater than the number of cues and recall performance is better than recognition when the converse holds. We build a simple computational model around this theory, using sampling to approximate an ideal Bayesian observer encoding and retrieving situational co-occurrence frequencies of stimuli and retrieval cues. This model robustly reproduces a number of dissociations in recognition and recall previously used to argue for dual-process accounts of declarative memory.
Gaussian process based nonlinear latent structure discovery in multivariate spike train data ,A large body of recent work has focused on methods for identifying low-dimensional latent structure in multi-neuron spike train data. Most such methods have employed either linear latent dynamics or linear (or log-linear) mappings from a latent space to spike rates. Here we propose a doubly nonlinear latent variable model for population spike trains that can identify nonlinear low-dimensional structure underlying apparently high-dimensional spike train data. Our model, the Poisson Gaussian Process Latent Variable Model (P-GPLVM), is defined by a low-dimensional latent variable governed by a Gaussian process, nonlinear tuning curves parametrized as exponentiated samples from a second Gaussian process, and Poisson observations. The nonlinear tuning curves allow for the discovery of low-dimensional latent embeddings, even when spike rates span a high-dimensional subspace (as in, e.g., hippocampal place cell codes). To learn the model, we introduce the {\it decoupled Laplace approximation}, a fast approximate inference method that allows us to efficiently maximize marginal likelihood for the latent path while integrating over tuning curves. We show that this method outperforms previous approaches to maximizing Laplace approximation-based marginal likelihoods in both the convergence speed and value of the final objective. We apply the model to spike trains recorded from hippocampal place cells and show that it outperforms a variety of previous methods for latent structure discovery, including variational auto-encoder based methods that parametrize the nonlinear mapping from latent space to spike rates with a deep neural network. 
Deep adversarial neural decoding,Here, we present a novel approach to solve the problem of reconstructing perceived stimuli from brain responses by combining probabilistic inference with deep learning. Our approach first inverts the linear transformation from latent features to brain responses with maximum a posteriori estimation and then inverts the nonlinear transformation from perceived stimuli to latent features with adversarial training of convolutional neural networks. We test our approach with a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment and show that it can generate state-of-the-art reconstructions of perceived faces from brain activations.
Cross-Spectral Factor Analysis,In neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia or depression, there is often a disruption in the way that the different regions of the brain communicate with one another. In order to build a greater understanding of the neurological basis of these disorders, we introduce a novel model of multisite Local Field Potentials (LFPs), which are the low-frequency voltage oscillations measured from electrodes implanted at many brain regions simultaneously. The proposed model, called Cross-Spectral Factor Analysis (CSFA), breaks the observed LFPs into electrical functional connectomes (Electomes) defined by differing spatiotemporal properties. Each Electome is defined by unique frequency power and phase coherence patterns between many brain regions. These properties are granted to the features via a Gaussian process formulation in a multiple kernel learning framework. Critically, the electomes are interpretable and can be used to design follow-up causal studies. Furthermore, by using this formulation, the LFP signals can be mapped to a lower dimensional space better than traditional approaches. Remarkably, in addition to the interpretability, the proposed approach achieves state-of-the-art predictive ability compared to black-box approaches when looking at behavioral paradigms and genotype prediction tasks in a mouse model, demonstrating that the feature basis is capturing neural dynamics related to outcomes. We conclude with a discussion of how the CSFA analysis is being used in conjunction with these experiments to design causal studies to provide gold standard validation of the inferred neural relationships.
Cognitive Impairment Prediction in Alzheimers Disease with Regularized Modal Regression,Accurate and automatic predictions of cognitive assessment via neuroimaging markers are critical for early detection of Alzheimer's disease. Linear regression models have been successfully used in the association study between neuroimaging features and cognitive performance for Alzheimer's disease study. However, most existing methods are built on least squares under the mean square error (MSE) criterion, which are sensitive to outliers and their performance may be degraded for heavy-tailed noise (such as for complex brain disorder data). In this paper, we go beyond this criterion by  investigating regularized modal regression from a statistical learning viewpoint. A new regularized scheme based on modal regression is proposed for estimation and variable selection, which is robust to outliers, heavy-tailed noise, and skewed noise. We conduct theoretical analysis and establish the approximation bound for learning the conditional mode function, the sparsity  analysis for variable selection, and the robustness characterization. The experimental evaluations on simulated data and ADNI cohort data are provided to support the promising performance of the proposed algorithm.
Stochastic Submodular Maximization: The Case of Coverage Functions,Continuous optimization techniques, such as SGD and its extensions, are the main workhorse of modern machine learning. Nevertheless, a variety of important machine learning problems require solving discrete optimization problems with submodular objectives. The goal of this paper is to unleash the toolkit of modern continuous optimization to such discrete problems. We first introduce a framework for \emph{stochastic submodular optimization} where, instead of the \emph{oracle} access to the underlying objective, one explicitly considers both the statistical and computational aspects of evaluating the objective. We then provide a formalization \emph{stochastic submodular maximization} for a class of important discrete optimization problems and show how the state-of-the-art techniques from continuous optimization can be lifted to the realm of discrete optimization. In an extensive experimental evaluation we demonstrate the practical impact of the proposed approach.
Gradient Methods for Submodular Maximization,In this paper, we study the problem of maximizing continuous submodular functions that naturally arise in many learning applications such as those involving utility functions in active learning and sensing, matrix approximations and network inference. Despite the apparent lack of convexity in such functionals, we prove that stochastic projected gradient methods can provide strong approximation guarantees for maximizing continuous submodular functions with convex constraints. More specifically, we prove that for monotone continuous DR-submodular functions, all fixed points of projected gradient ascent provide a factor $1/2$ approximation to the global maxima. We also study stochastic gradient and mirror methods and show that after $\mathcal{O}(1/\epsilon^2)$ iterations these methods reach solutions which achieve in expectaion objective values exceeding $(\frac{\text{OPT}}{2}-\epsilon)$. One immediate implication of our result is to bridge discrete and continuous submodular maximization.  Finally, experiments on real data demonstrate that our projected gradient methods consistently achieve the best utility compared to other continuous baselines while remaining competitive in terms of computational effort.
Non-convex Finite-Sum Optimization Via SCSG Methods,We develop a class of algorithms, as variants of the stochastically controlled stochastic gradient (SCSG) methods , for the smooth nonconvex finite-sum optimization problem. Only assuming the smoothness of each component, the complexity of SCSG to reach a stationary point with $E \|\nabla f(x)\|^{2}\le \epsilon$ is $O(\min\{\epsilon^{-5/3}, \epsilon^{-1}n^{2/3}\})$, which strictly outperforms the stochastic gradient descent. Moreover, SCSG is never worse than the state of the art methods based on variance reduction and it significantly outperforms them when the target accuracy is low. A similar acceleration is also achieved when the functions satisfy the Polyak-Lojasiewicz condition. Empirical experiments demonstrate that SCSG outperforms stochastic gradient methods on training multi-layers neural networks in terms of both training and validation loss.
Influence Maximization with $\varepsilon$-Almost Submodular Threshold Function,Influence maximization is the problem of selecting $k$ nodes in a social network to maximize their influence spread. The problem has been extensively studied but most works focus on the submodular influence diffusion models. In this paper, motivated by empirical evidences, we explore influence maximization in the non-submodular regime. In particular, we study the general threshold model in which a fraction of nodes have non-submodular threshold functions, but their threshold functions are closely upper- and lower-bounded by some submodular functions (we call them $\varepsilon$-almost submodular). We first show a strong hardness result: there is no $1/n^{\frac{\gamma}{c}}$ approximation for influence maximization (unless P = NP) for all networks with up to $n^{\gamma}$ $\varepsilon$-almost submodular nodes, where $\gamma$ is in $(0,1)$ and $c$ is a parameter depending on $\varepsilon$. Although threshold function is close to submodular, the influence maximization is still hard to approximate. We then provide $(1-\varepsilon)^{\ell}(1-\frac{1}{e})$ approximation algorithms when the number of $\varepsilon$-almost submodular nodes is $\ell$. Finally, we conduct experiments on a number of real-world datasets, and the results demonstrate that our approximation algorithms outperform other benchmark algorithms.
Subset Selection under Noise,The problem of selecting the best $k$-element subset from a universe is involved in many applications. While previous studies assumed a noise-free environment or a noisy monotone submodular objective function, this paper considers a more realistic and general situation that the evaluation of a subset is a noisy monotone function (not necessarily submodular), with both multiplicative and additive noises. To understand the impact of the noise, we firstly show the approximation ratio of the greedy algorithm and POSS, two powerful algorithms for noise-free subset selection, in the noisy environments. We then propose to incorporate a noise-aware strategy into POSS, resulting in the new PONSS algorithm with a better approximation ratio. The empirical results on influence maximization and sparse regression problems show the superior performance of PONSS.
Polynomial time algorithms for dual volume sampling,We study dual volume sampling, a method for selecting k columns from an n*m short and wide matrix (n <= k <= m) such that the probability of selection is proportional to the volume spanned by the rows of the induced submatrix. This method was proposed by Avron and Boutsidis (2013), who showed it to be a promising method for column subset selection and its multiple applications. However, its wider adoption has been hampered by the lack of polynomial time sampling algorithms. We remove this hindrance by developing an exact (randomized) polynomial time sampling algorithm as well as its derandomization. Thereafter, we study dual volume sampling via the theory of real-stable polynomials and prove that its distribution satisfies the ``Strong Rayleigh'' property. This result has remarkable consequences, especially because it implies a provably fast-mixing Markov chain sampler that makes dual volume sampling much more attractive to practitioners. This sampler is closely related to classical algorithms for popular experimental design methods that are to date lacking theoretical analysis but are known to empirically work well.
Lookahead  Bayesian Optimization with Inequality Constraints,We consider the task of optimizing an objective function subject to inequality constraints when both the objective and the constraints are expensive to evaluate. Bayesian optimization (BO) is a popular way to tackle optimization problems with expensive objective function evaluations, but has mostly been applied to unconstrained problems. Several BO approaches have been proposed to address expensive constraints but are limited to greedy strategies maximizing immediate reward. To address this limitation, we propose a lookahead approach that selects the next evaluation in order to maximize the long-term feasible reduction of the objective function. We present numerical experiments demonstrating the performance improvements of such a lookahead approach compared to two greedy BO algorithms: constrained expected improvement (EIC) and predictive entropy search with constraint (PESC).
Non-monotone Continuous DR-submodular  Maximization: Structure and Algorithms,DR-submodular continuous functions are important objectives with wide real-world applications spanning MAP inference in  determinantal point processes (DPPs), and mean-field inference for probabilistic submodular models, amongst others. DR-submodularity captures a subclass of non-convex functions that enables both exact minimization and approximate maximization in polynomial time. In this work we study the  problem of maximizing  non-monotone DR-submodular continuous functions under general  down-closed convex constraints. We start by investigating several properties that underlie such objectives, which are then  used to devise two  optimization algorithms with provable guarantees. Concretely, we first devise a "two-phase" algorithm with $1/4$ approximation guarantee. This algorithm allows the use of existing methods which are ensured to find (approximate) stationary points as a subroutine; thus, enabling to utilize  recent progress in non-convex optimization. Then  we present a non-monotone Frank-Wolfe variant with $1/e$ approximation guarantee and sublinear convergence rate. Finally, we extend our approach to a broader class of generalized DR-submodular continuous functions, which captures a wider spectrum of applications. Our theoretical findings are validated on several synthetic and real-world problem instances.
Solving (Almost) all Systems of Random Quadratic Equations,This paper deals with finding an $n$-dimensional solution $\bm{x}$ to a system of quadratic equations $y_i=|\langle\bm{a}_i,\bm{x}\rangle|^2$, $1\le i \le m$, which in general is known to be NP-hard. We put forth a novel procedure, that starts with a \emph{weighted maximal correlation initialization} obtainable with a few power iterations, followed by successive refinements based on \emph{iteratively reweighted gradient-type iterations}. The novel techniques distinguish themselves from prior works by the inclusion of a fresh (re)weighting regularization. For certain random measurement models, the proposed procedure returns the true solution $\bm{x}$ with high probability in time proportional to reading the data $\{(\bm{a}_i;y_i)\}_{1\le i \le m}$, provided that the number $m$ of equations is some constant $c > 0$ times the number $n$ of unknowns, namely, $m\ge cn$. Empirically, the upshots of this contribution are: i) perfect signal recovery in the high-dimensional regime given only an information-theoretic limit number of equations; and, ii) near-optimal statistical accuracy in the presence of additive noise. Extensive numerical tests using both synthetic data and real images corroborate its improved signal recovery performance and computational efficiency relative to state-of-the-art approaches.  
Learning ReLUs via Gradient Descent,In this paper we study the problem of learning Rectified Linear Units (ReLUs) which are functions of the form $\vct{x}\mapsto \max(0,\langle \vct{w},\vct{x}\rangle)$ with $\vct{w}\in\R^d$ denoting the weight vector.  We study this problem in the high-dimensional regime where the number of observations are fewer than the dimension of the weight vector. We assume that the weight vector belongs to some closed set (convex or nonconvex) which captures known side-information about its structure. We focus on the realizable model where the inputs are chosen i.i.d.~from a Gaussian distribution and the labels are generated according to a planted weight vector. We show that projected gradient descent, when initialization at $\vct{0}$, converges at a linear rate to the planted model with a number of samples that is optimal up to numerical constants. Our results on the dynamics of convergence of these very shallow neural nets may provide some insights towards understanding the dynamics of deeper architectures.
Stochastic Mirror Descent for Non-Convex Optimization,In this paper, we examine a class of non-convex stochastic programs which we call \emph{variationally coherent}, and which properly includes all quasi-/pseudo-convex optimization problems. To establish convergence in this class of problems, we study the well-known \ac{SMD} method, and we show that the algorithm's last iterate converges to the problem's global optimum with probability $1$. Our results contribute in the landscape of non-convex optimization by clarifying that convexity/quasi-convexity is not essential for global convergence; rather, variational coherence, a much weaker requirement, suffices. We then localize this class to account for locally variationally coherent problems, where we show that the last iterate of stochastic mirror descent converges to local optima with high probability. Finally, we consider last-iterate convergence rates for problems with sharp minima, and we derive as a special case the conclusion that, with probability $1$, the last iterate of stochastic gradient descent reaches an exact global optimum in a finite number of steps, a result to be contrasted with existing work on linear programs that only exhibit asymptotic convergence rates.   
Accelerated First-order Methods for Geodesically Convex Optimization on Riemannian Manifolds,In this paper, we propose an accelerated first-order method for geodesically convex optimization, which is the generalization of the standard Nesterov's accelerated method from Euclidean space to nonlinear Riemannian space. We first derive two equations to approximate the linearization of gradient-like updates in Euclidean space for geodesically convex optimization. In particular, we analyze the global convergence properties of our accelerated method for geodesically strongly-convex problems, which show that our method improves the convergence rate from O((1-\mu/L)^{k}) to O((1-\sqrt{{\mu}/{L}})^{k})$. Moreover, our method also improves the global convergence rate on geodesically general convex problems from O(1/k) to O(1/k^{2}). Finally, we give a specific iterative scheme for matrix Karcher mean problems, and validate our theoretical results with experiments.
On the Fine-Grained Complexity of Empirical Risk Minimization: Kernel Methods and Neural Networks,Empirical risk minimization (ERM) is ubiquitous in machine learning and underlies most supervised learning methods. While there is a large body of work on algorithms for various ERM problems, the exact computational complexity of ERM is still not understood. We address this issue for multiple popular ERM problems including kernel SVMs, kernel ridge regression, and training the final layer of a neural network. In particular, we give conditional hardness results for these problems based on complexity-theoretic assumptions such as the Strong Exponential Time Hypothesis. Under these assumptions, we show that there are no algorithms that solve the aforementioned ERM problems to high accuracy in sub-quadratic time. We also give similar hardness results for computing the gradient of the empirical loss, which is the main computational burden in many non-convex learning tasks. 
Large-Scale Quadratically Constrained Quadratic Program via Low-Discrepancy Sequences,We consider the problem of solving a large-scale Quadratically Constrained Quadratic Program. Such problems occur naturally in many scientific and web applications. Although there are efficient methods which tackle this problem, they are mostly not scalable. In this paper, we develop a method that transforms the quadratic constraint into a linear form by a sampling a set of low-discrepancy points. The transformed problem can then be solved by applying any state-of-the-art large-scale solvers. We show the convergence of our approximate solution to the true solution as well as some finite sample error bounds. Experimental results are also shown to prove scalability in practice.
A New Alternating Direction Method for Linear Programming,It is well known that, for a linear program (LP) with constraint matrix $\mathbf{A}\in\mathbb{R}^{m\times n}$, the Alternating Direction Method of Multiplier converges globally and linearly at a rate $O((\|\mathbf{A}\|_F^2+mn)\log(1/\epsilon))$. However, such a rate is related to the problem dimension and the algorithm exhibits a slow and fluctuating ``tail convergence'' in practice. In this paper, we propose a new variable splitting method of LP and prove that our method has a convergence rate of $O(\|\mathbf{A}\|^2\log(1/\epsilon))$. The proof is based on simultaneously estimating the distance from a pair of primal dual iterates to the optimal primal and dual solution set by certain residuals. In practice, we result in a new first-order LP solver that can exploit both the sparsity and the specific structure of matrix $\mathbf{A}$ and a  significant speedup for important problems such as basis pursuit, inverse covariance matrix estimation, L1 SVM and nonnegative matrix factorization problem compared with current fastest LP solvers.
Dykstra's Algorithm, ADMM, and Coordinate Descent: Connections, Insights, and Extensions,We study connections between Dykstra's algorithm for projecting onto an intersection of convex sets, the augmented Lagrangian method of multipliers or ADMM, and block coordinate descent.  We prove that coordinate descent for a regularized regression problem, in which the (separable) penalty functions are seminorms, is exactly equivalent to Dykstra's algorithm applied to the dual problem.  ADMM on the dual problem is also seen to be equivalent, in the special case of two sets, with one being a linear subspace. These connections, aside from being interesting in their own right, suggest new ways of analyzing and extending coordinate descent. For example, from existing convergence theory on Dykstra's algorithm over polyhedra, we discern that coordinate descent for the lasso problem converges at an (asymptotically) linear rate.  We also develop two parallel versions of coordinate descent, based on the Dykstra and ADMM connections. 
Smooth Primal-Dual Coordinate Descent Algorithms for Nonsmooth Convex Optimization,We propose a new randomized coordinate descent method for a convex optimization template  with broad applications. Our analysis relies on a novel combination of four ideas applied to the primal-dual gap function: smoothing, acceleration, homotopy, and non-uniform sampling. As a result, our method features the first convergence rate guarantees that are the best-known under a variety of common structure assumptions on the  template. We provide numerical evidence to support the theoretical results with a comparison to state-of-the-art algorithms. 
First-Order Adaptive Sample Size Methods to Reduce Complexity of Empirical Risk Minimization,This paper studies empirical risk minimization (ERM) problems for large-scale datasets and incorporates the idea of adaptive sample size methods to improve the guaranteed convergence bounds for first-order stochastic and deterministic methods. In contrast to traditional methods that attempt to solve the ERM problem corresponding to the full dataset directly, adaptive sample size schemes start with a small number of samples and solve the corresponding ERM problem to its statistical accuracy. The sample size is then grown geometrically -- e.g., scaling by a factor of two -- and use the solution of the previous ERM as a warm start for the new ERM. Theoretical analyses show that the use of adaptive sample size methods reduces the overall computational cost of achieving the statistical accuracy of the whole dataset for a broad range of deterministic and stochastic first-order methods. The gains are specific to the choice of method. When particularized to, e.g., accelerated gradient descent and stochastic variance reduce gradient, the computational cost advantage is a logarithm of the number of training samples. Numerical experiments on various datasets confirm theoretical claims and showcase the gains of using the proposed adaptive sample size scheme. 
Accelerated consensus via Min-Sum Splitting,We apply the Min-Sum message-passing protocol to solve the consensus problem in distributed optimization. We show that while the ordinary Min-Sum algorithm does not converge, a modified version of it known as Splitting yields convergence to the problem solution. We prove that a proper choice of the tuning parameters allows Min-Sum Splitting to yield subdiffusive accelerated convergence rates, matching the rates obtained by shift-register methods. The acceleration scheme embodied by Min-Sum Splitting for the consensus problem bears similarities with lifted Markov chains techniques and with multi-step first order methods in convex optimization.
Integration Methods and Optimization Algorithms,We show that accelerated optimization methods can be seen as particular instances of multi-step integration schemes from numerical analysis, applied to the gradient flow equation. Compared with recent advances in this vein, the differential equation considered here is the basic gradient flow, and we derive a class of multi-step schemes which includes accelerated algorithms, using classical conditions from numerical analysis. Multi-step schemes integrate the differential equation using larger step sizes, which intuitively explains the acceleration phenomenon.
Efficient Use of Limited-Memory Resources to Accelerate Linear Learning,In this work we propose a generic approach to efficiently use compute accelerators such as GPUs and FPGAs for the training of large-scale machine learning models when the training data exceeds their memory capacity. Our technique builds upon primal-dual coordinate selection and uses duality gaps as a selection criteria to dynamically decide which part of the data should be made available for fast processing. We provide strong theoretical guarantees, motivating our gap-based selection scheme and provide an efficient practical implementation thereof. To illustrate the power of our approach we demonstrate its performance for training of generalized linear models on large scale datasets exceeding the memory size of a modern GPU, showing an order-of-magnitude speedup over existing approaches.
A Screening Rule for l1-Regularized Ising Model Estimation,We discover a screening rule for l1-regularized Ising model estimation. The simple closed-form screening rule is a necessary and sufficient condition for exactly recovering the blockwise structure of a solution under any given regularization parameters. With enough sparsity, the screening rule can be combined with exact and inexact optimization procedures to deliver solutions efficiently in practice. The screening rule is especially suitable for large-scale exploratory data analysis, where the number of variables in the dataset can be thousands while we are only interested in the relationship among a handful of variables within moderate-size clusters for interpretability. Experimental results on various datasets demonstrate the efficiency and insights gained from the introduction of the screening rule. 
Uprooting and Rerooting Higher-order Graphical Models,The idea of uprooting and rerooting graphical models was introduced specifically for binary pairwise models by Weller [18] as a way to transform a model to any of a whole equivalence class of related models, such that inference on any one model yields inference results for all others. This is very helpful since inference, or relevant bounds, may be much easier to obtain or more accurate for some model in the class. Here we introduce methods to extend the approach to models with higher-order potentials and develop theoretical insights. For example, we demonstrate that the triplet-consistent polytope TRI is unique in being 'universally rooted'. We demonstrate empirically that rerooting can significantly improve accuracy of methods of inference for higher-order models at negligible computational cost.
Concentration of Multilinear Functions of the Ising Model with Applications to Network Data,We prove near-tight concentration of measure for polynomial functions of the Ising model, under high temperature, improving the radius of concentration guaranteed by known results by polynomial factors in the dimension (i.e.~the number of nodes in the Ising model). We show that our results are optimal up to logarithmic factors in the dimension. We obtain our results by extending and strengthening the exchangeable-pairs approach used to prove concentration of measure in this setting by Chatterjee. We demonstrate the efficacy of such functions as statistics for testing the strength  of interactions in social networks in both synthetic and real world data.
Inference in Graphical Models via Semidefinite Programming Hierarchies ,Maximum A posteriori Probability (MAP) inference in graphical models amounts to solving a graph-structured  combinatorial optimization problem. Popular inference algorithms such as belief propagation (BP) and generalized belief propagation (GBP) are intimately related to linear programming (LP) relaxation  within the Sherali-Adams hierarchy. Despite the popularity of these algorithms,  it is well understood that the Sum-of-Squares (SOS) hierarchy based on semidefinite programming (SDP) can provide superior guarantees. Unfortunately, SOS relaxations for a graph with $n$ vertices require solving an SDP with $n^{\Theta(d)}$ variables where $d$ is the degree in the hierarchy. In practice, for $d\ge 4$, this approach does not scale beyond a few tens of variables.  In this paper, we propose SDP relaxations for MAP inference using the SOS hierarchy with two innovations focused on computational efficiency. Firstly, in analogy to BP and its variants, we only introduce decision variables corresponding to contiguous regions in the graphical model. Secondly, we solve the resulting SDP using a non-convex Burer-Monteiro style method, and develop a sequential rounding procedure. We demonstrate that the resulting algorithm can solve problems with tens of thousands of variables within minutes, and significantly outperforms BP and GBP on practical problems such as image denoising and Ising spin glasses. Finally for specific graph types, we establish a sufficient condition for the tightness of the proposed partial SOS relaxation.
Beyond normality: Learning sparse probabilistic graphical models in the non-Gaussian setting,We present an algorithm to identify sparse dependence structure in continuous and non-Gaussian probability distributions, given a corresponding set of data. The conditional independence structure of an arbitrary distribution can be represented as an undirected graph (or Markov random field), but most algorithms for learning this structure are restricted to the discrete or Gaussian cases. Our new approach allows for more realistic and accurate descriptions of the distribution in question, and in turn better estimates of its sparse Markov structure. Sparsity in the graph is of interest as it can accelerate inference, improve sampling methods, and reveal important dependencies between variables. The algorithm relies on exploiting the connection between the sparsity of the graph and the sparsity of transport maps, which deterministically couple one probability measure to another.
Dynamic Importance Sampling for Anytime Bounds of the Partition Function,Computing the partition function is a key inference task in many graphical models. In this paper, we propose a dynamic importance sampling scheme that provides  anytime finite-sample bounds for the partition function. Our algorithm balances the advantages of the three major inference strategies, heuristic search, variational bounds, and Monte Carlo methods, blending sampling with search to refine a variationally defined proposal.  Our algorithm combines and generalizes recent work on anytime search and probabilistic bounds of the partition function. By using an intelligently chosen weighted average over the samples, we construct an unbiased estimator of the partition function with strong finite-sample confidence intervals that inherit both the rapid early improvement rate of sampling with the long-term benefits of an improved proposal from search. This gives significantly improved anytime behavior, and more flexible trade-offs between memory, time, and solution quality. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach empirically  on real-world problem instances taken from recent UAI competitions.
Nonbacktracking Bounds on the Influence in Independent Cascade Models,This paper develops upper and lower bounds on the influence measure in a network, more precisely, the expected number of nodes that a seed set can influence in the independent cascade model. In particular, our bounds exploit nonbacktracking walks, Fortuin-Kasteleyn-Ginibre (FKG) type inequalities, and are computed by message passing implementation. Nonbacktracking walks have recently allowed for headways in community detection, and this paper shows that their use can also impact the influence computation. Further, we provide a knob to control the trade-off between the efficiency and the accuracy of the bounds. Finally, the tightness of the bounds is illustrated with simulations on various network models.
Rigorous Dynamics and Consistent Estimation in Arbitrarily Conditioned Linear Systems ,The problem of estimating a random vector x from noisy linear measurements y=Ax+w with unknown parameters on the distributions of x and w, which must also be learned, arises in a wide range of statistical learning and linear inverse problems.  We show that a computationally simple iterative message-passing algorithm can provably obtain asymptotically consistent estimates in a certain high-dimensional large-system limit (LSL) under very general parameterizations.  Previous message passing techniques have required i.i.d. sub-Gaussian A matrices and often fail when the matrix is ill-conditioned. The proposed algorithm, called adaptive vector approximate message passing (Adaptive VAMP) with auto-tuning, applies to all right-rotationally random A.  Importantly, this class includes matrices with arbitrarily bad conditioning.  We show that the parameter estimates and mean squared error (MSE) of x in each iteration converge to deterministic limits that can be precisely predicted by a simple set of state evolution (SE) equations.  In addition, a simple testable condition is provided in which the MSE matches the Bayes-optimal value predicted by the replica method.  The paper thus provides a computationally simple method with provable guarantees of optimality and consistency over a large class of linear inverse problems.
Learning Disentangled Representations with Semi-Supervised Deep Generative Models,Variational autoencoders (VAEs) learn representations of data by jointly training a probabilistic encoder and decoder network. Typically these models encode all features of the data into a single variable. Here we are interested in learning disentangled representations that encode distinct aspects of the data into separate variables. We propose to learn such representations using model architectures that generalize from standard VAEs, employing a general graphical model structure in the encoder and decoder. This allows us to train partially-specified models that make relatively strong assumptions about a subset of interpretable variables and rely on the flexibility of neural networks to learn representations for the remaining variables. We further define a general objective for semi-supervised learning in this model class, which can be approximated using an importance sampling procedure that applies generally to this class of models. We evaluate our framework's ability to learn disentangled representations, both by qualitative exploration of its generative capacity, and quantitative evaluation of its discriminative ability on a variety of models and datasets.
Gauging Variational Inference,Computing partition function is the most important statistical inference task arising in applications of Graphical Models (GM). Since it is computationally intractable, approximate  methods have been used to resolve the issue in practice, where mean-field  (MF) and belief propagation (BP) are arguably the most popular and successful approaches of a variational type. In this paper, we propose two new variational schemes, coined Gauged-MF (G-MF) and Gauged-BP (G-BP), improving MF and BP, respectively. Both provide lower bounds for the partition function by utilizing the so-called gauge transformation which modifies factors of GM while keeping the partition function invariant. Moreover, we prove that both G-MF and G-BP are exact for GMs with a single loop of a special structure, even though the bare MF and BP perform badly in this case. Our extensive experiments, on complete GMs of relatively small size and on large GM (up-to 300 variables) confirm that the newly proposed algorithms outperform and generalize MF and BP.
Variational Inference via $\chi$ Upper Bound Minimization,Variational inference (VI) is widely used as an efficient alternative to MCMC. It posits a family of approximating distributions $q$ and finds the member $q^*$ closest to the true posterior $p$. Closeness is usually measured via a divergence $D(q || p)$ from $q$ to $p$. Though successful, this approach also has problems. Notably, it typically leads to underestimation of the posterior variance. In this paper we propose CHIVI, a new black-box variational inference algorithm that minimizes $D_{\chi}(p || q)$, the $\chi$-divergence from $p$ to $q$. CHIVI minimizes an upper bound of the model evidence, which we term the CUBO. Minimizing the CUBO leads to better estimates of the posterior and, when used with the classical VI lower bound, ELBO, can provide a sandwich estimate of the marginal likelihood.  We study CHIVI on three models: probit regression, Gaussian process classification, and a Cox process model of basketball plays. When compared to EP and classical VI, CHIVI produces better error rates and more accurate estimates of posterior variance.
Collapsed variational Bayes for Markov jump processes,Markov jump processes are continuous-time stochastic processes widely used in statistical applications in the natural sciences, and more recently in machine learning. Inference for these models typically proceeds via Markov chain Monte Carlo, and can suffer from various computational challenges. In this work, we propose a novel collapsed variational inference algorithm to address this issue. Our work leverages ideas from discrete-time Markov chains, and exploits a connection between these two through an idea called uniformization. Our algorithm proceeds by marginalizing out the parameters of the Markov jump process, and then approximating the distribution over the trajectory with a factored distribution over segments of a piecewise-constant function. Unlike MCMC schemes that marginalize out transition times of a piecewise-constant process, our scheme optimizes the discretization of time, resulting in significant computational savings. We apply our ideas to synthetic data as well as a dataset of check-in recordings, where we demonstrate superior performance over state-of-the-art MCMC methods.
Bayesian Dyadic Trees and Histograms for  Regression,Many machine learning  tools for regression are based on recursive partitioning of the covariate space into smaller regions, where the regression function can be estimated locally. Among these, regression trees and their ensembles have demonstrated impressive empirical performance.  In this work, we shed light on the machinery behind Bayesian variants of these methods.  In particular, we study Bayesian regression histograms, such as Bayesian dyadic trees, in the simple regression case with just one predictor.   We focus on the reconstruction of regression surfaces that are piecewise constant, where the number of jumps is unknown. We show that with suitably designed priors, posterior distributions concentrate around the true step regression function at the minimax rate (up to a log factor). These results do not require the knowledge of the true number of steps, nor the width of the true partitioning cells. Thus, Bayesian dyadic regression trees are fully adaptive and can recover the true piecewise regression function nearly as well as if we knew the exact number and location  of jumps.  Our results constitute the first step towards  understanding why Bayesian trees and their ensembles have worked so well in practice.  As an aside, we discuss prior distributions  on balanced interval partitions and how they relate to a problem in geometric probability. Namely, we quantify the probability of covering the circumference of a circle with random arcs whose endpoints are confined to a grid, a new variant of the original problem
Differentially private Bayesian learning on distributed data,Many applications of machine learning, for example in health care,   would benefit from methods that can guarantee privacy of data subjects.   Differential privacy (DP) has become established as a standard for   protecting learning results. The standard DP algorithms require a   single trusted party to have access to the entire data, which is a   clear weakness. We consider DP Bayesian learning in a distributed setting, where   each party only holds a single sample or a few samples of the data.    We propose a learning strategy based on a secure multi-party   sum function for aggregating summaries from data holders and Gaussian    mechanism for DP. Our method builds on an asymptotically optimal and practically efficient   DP Bayesian inference with rapidly diminishing extra cost.
Model-Powered Conditional Independence Test,We consider the problem of non-parametric Conditional Independence testing (CI testing) for continuous random variables. Given i.i.d samples from the joint distribution $f(x,y,z)$ of continuous random vectors $X,Y$ and $Z,$ we determine whether $X \independent Y \vert Z$. We approach this by converting the conditional independence test into a classification problem.  This allows us to harness very powerful classifiers like gradient-boosted trees and deep neural networks.  These models can handle complex probability distributions and allow us to perform significantly better compared to the prior state of the art, for high-dimensional CI testing. The main technical challenge in the classification problem is the need for samples from the conditional product distribution $f^{CI}(x,y,z) = f(x|z)f(y|z)f(z)$ -- the joint distribution if and only if $X \independent Y \vert Z.$ -- when given access only to i.i.d.  samples from the true joint distribution $f(x,y,z)$.  To tackle this problem we propose a novel nearest neighbor bootstrap procedure and theoretically show that our generated samples are indeed close to $f^{CI}$ in terms of total variational distance. We then develop theoretical results regarding the generalization bounds for classification for our problem, which translate into error bounds for CI testing. We provide a novel analysis of Rademacher type classification bounds in the presence of non-i.i.d \textit{near-independent} samples. We empirically validate the performance of our algorithm on simulated and real datasets and show performance gains over previous methods.
When Worlds Collide: Integrating Different Counterfactual Assumptions in Fairness,Machine learning is now being used to make crucial decisions about people's lives. For nearly all of these decisions there is a risk that individuals of a certain race, gender, sexual orientation, or any other subpopulation are unfairly discriminated against. A recent method has demonstrated how to use techniques from counterfactual inference to make predictions fair across different subpopulations. This method requires that one provides the causal model that generated the data at hand. In genera, validating the causal model is impossible using observational data alone, without further assumptions. Hence, it is desirable to integrate competing causal models to provide counterfactually fair decisions, regardless of which "world" is the correct one. In this paper we show how it is possible to make predictions that are approximately fair with respect to multiple possible causal models at once, thus bypassing the problem of exact causal specification. We frame the goal of learning a fair classifier as an optimization problem with fairness constraints. We provide techniques and relaxations  to solve the optimization problem. We demonstrate the flexibility of our model on two real-world fair classification problems. We show that our model can seamlessly balance fairness in multiple worlds with prediction accuracy. 
Q-LDA: Uncovering Latent Patterns in Text-based Sequential Decision Processes,In sequential decision making, it is often important and useful for end users to understand the underlying patterns or causes that lead to the corresponding decisions. However, typical deep reinforcement learning algorithms seldom provide such information due to their black-box nature. In this paper, we present a probabilistic model, Q-LDA, to uncover latent patterns in text-based sequential decision processes. The model can be understood as a variant of latent topic models that are tailored to maximize total rewards; we further draw an interesting connection between an approximate maximum-likelihood estimation of Q-LDA and the celebrated Q-learning algorithm. We demonstrate in the text-game domain that our proposed method not only provides a viable mechanism to uncover latent patterns in decision processes, but also obtains state-of-the-art rewards in these games.
Probabilistic Models for Integration Error in the Assessment of Functional Cardiac Models,This paper studies the numerical computation of integrals, representing estimates or predictions, over the output $f(x)$ of a computational model with respect to a distribution $p(\mathrm{d}x)$ over uncertain inputs $x$ to the model. For the functional cardiac models that motivate this work, neither $f$ nor $p$ possess a closed-form expression and evaluation of either requires $\approx$ 100 CPU hours, precluding standard numerical integration methods. Our proposal is to treat integration as an estimation problem, with a joint model for both the a priori unknown function $f$ and the a priori unknown distribution $p$. The result is a posterior distribution over the integral that explicitly accounts for dual sources of numerical approximation error due to a severely limited computational budget. This construction is applied to account, in a statistically principled manner, for the impact of numerical errors that (at present) are confounding factors in functional cardiac model assessment.
Expectation Propagation for t-Exponential Family Using Q-Algebra,Exponential family distributions are highly useful in machine learning since their calculation can be performed efficiently through natural parameters. The exponential family has recently been extended to the \emph{t-exponential family}, which contains Student-t distributions as family members and thus allows us to handle noisy data well. However, since the t-exponential family is defined by the \emph{deformed exponential}, we cannot derive an efficient learning algorithm for the t-exponential family such as expectation propagation (EP). In this paper, we borrow the mathematical tools of q-algebra} from statistical physics and show that the pseudo additivity of distributions allows us to perform calculation of t-exponential family distributions through natural parameters. We then develop an expectation propagation (EP) algorithm for the t-exponential family, which provides a deterministic approximation to the posterior or predictive distribution with simple moment matching. We finally apply the proposed EP algorithm to the Bayes point machine and Student-t process classification, and demonstrate their performance numerically.
A Probabilistic Framework for Nonlinearities in Stochastic Neural Networks,We present a probabilistic framework for nonlinearities, based on doubly truncated Gaussian distributions. By setting the truncation points appropriately, we are able to generate various types of nonlinearities within a unified framework, including sigmoid, tanh and ReLU, the most commonly used nonlinearities in neural networks. The framework readily integrates into existing stochastic neural networks (with hidden units characterized as random variables), allowing one for the first time to learn the nonlinearities alongside model weights in these networks. Extensive experiments demonstrate the performance improvements brought about by the proposed framework when integrated with the restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM), temporal RBM and the truncated Gaussian graphical model (TGGM).
Clone MCMC: Parallel High-Dimensional Gaussian Gibbs Sampling,We propose a generalized Gibbs sampler algorithm for obtaining samples approx-imately distributed from a high-dimensional Gaussian distribution. Similarly to Hogwild methods, our approach does not target the original Gaussian distribution of interest, but an approximation to it. Contrary to Hogwild methods, a single parameter allows us to trade bias for variance. We show empirically that our method is very flexible and performs well compared to Hogwild-type algorithms.
Learning spatiotemporal piecewise-geodesic trajectories from longitudinal manifold-valued data,We introduce a hierarchical model which allows to estimate a group-average piecewise-geodesic trajectory in the Riemannian space of measurements and individual variability. This model falls into the well defined mixed-effect models. The subject-specific trajectories are defined through spatial and temporal transformations of the group-average piecewise-geodesic path, component by component. Thus we can apply our model to a wide variety of situations. Due to the non-linearity of the model, we use the Stochastic Approximation Expectation-Maximization algorithm to estimate the model parameters. Experiments on synthetic data validate this choice. The model is then applied to the metastatic renal cancer chemotherapy monitoring: we run estimations on RECIST scores of treated patients and estimate the time they escape from the treatment. Experiments highlight the role of the different parameters on the response to treatment.
Scalable Levy Process Priors for Spectral Kernel Learning,Gaussian processes are rich distributions over functions, with generalisation properties determined by a kernel function. We propose a distribution over kernels, formed by modelling a spectral density with a Levy process. The resulting distribution has support for all stationary covariances---including the popular RBF, periodic, and Matern kernels---combined with inductive biases which enable automatic and data efficient learning, long range extrapolation, and state of the art predictive performance. For posterior inference, we develop a reversible jump MCMC approach, which includes automatic selection over model order. We exploit the algebraic structure of the proposed process for O(n)training and O(1) predictions. We show that the proposed model can empirically recover flexible ground truth covariances, and demonstrate extrapolation on several benchmarks.
Inferring The Latent Structure of Human Decision-Making from Raw Visual Inputs,The goal of imitation learning is to match example expert behavior, without access to a reinforcement signal. Expert demonstrations provided by humans, however, often show significant variability due to latent factors that are not explicitly modeled. We introduce an extension to the Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning method that can infer the latent structure of human decision-making in an unsupervised way. Our method can not only imitate complex behaviors, but also learn interpretable and meaningful representations. We demonstrate that the approach is applicable to high-dimensional environments including raw visual inputs. In the highway driving domain, we show that a model learned from demonstrations is able to both produce different driving styles and accurately anticipate human actions. Our method surpasses various baselines in terms of performance and functionality.
Hybrid Reward Architecture for Reinforcement Learning,One of the main challenges in reinforcement learning (RL) is generalisation. In typical deep RL methods this is achieved by approximating the optimal value function with a low-dimensional representation using a deep network.  While this approach works well in many domains, in domains where the optimal value function cannot easily be reduced to a low-dimensional representation, learning can be very slow and unstable. This paper contributes towards tackling such challenging domains, by proposing a new method, called HYbriD Reward Architecture (HYDRA). HYDRA takes as input a decomposed reward function and learns a separate value function for each component reward function. Because each component typically only depends on a subset of all features, the overall value function is much smoother and can be easier approximated by a low-dimensional representation, enabling more effective learning. We demonstrate HYDRA on a toy-problem and the Atari game Ms. Pac-Man, where HYDRA achieves above-human performance.  
Shallow Updates for Deep Reinforcement Learning,Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) methods such as the Deep Q-Network (DQN) have achieved state-of-the-art results in a variety of challenging, high-dimensional domains. This success is mainly attributed to the power of deep neural networks to learn rich domain representations for approximating the value function or policy.  Batch reinforcement learning methods with linear representations, on the other hand, are more stable and require less hyper parameter tuning. Yet, substantial feature engineering is necessary to achieve good results. In this work we propose a hybrid approach -- the Least Squares Deep Q-Network (LS-DQN), which combines rich feature representations learned by a DRL algorithm with the stability of a linear least squares method. We do this by periodically re-training the last hidden layer of a DRL network with a batch least squares update. Key to our approach is a Bayesian regularization term for the least squares update, which prevents over-fitting to the more recent data. We tested LS-DQN on five Atari games and demonstrate significant improvement over vanilla DQN and Double-DQN. We also investigated the reasons for the superior performance of our method. Interestingly, we found that the performance improvement can be attributed to the large batch size used by the LS method when optimizing the last layer.
Towards Generalization and Simplicity in Continuous Control,The remarkable successes of deep learning in speech recognition and computer vision have motivated efforts to adapt similar techniques to other problem domains, including reinforcement learning (RL). Consequently, RL methods have produced rich motor behaviors on simulated robot tasks, with their success largely attributed to the use of multi-layer neural networks. This work is among the first to carefully study what might be responsible for these recent advancements. Our main result calls this emerging narrative into question by showing that much simpler architectures -- based on linear and RBF parameterizations  -- achieve comparable performance to state of the art results.  We not only study different policy representations with regard to performance measures at hand, but also towards robustness to external perturbations. We again find that the learned neural network policies --- under the standard training scenarios ---  are no more robust than linear (or RBF) policies; in fact, all three are remarkably brittle. Finally, we then directly modify the training scenarios in order to favor more robust policies, and we again do not find a compelling case to favor multi-layer architectures.  Overall, this study suggests that multi-layer architectures should not be the default choice, unless a side-by-side comparison to simpler architectures shows otherwise. More generally, we hope that these results lead to more interest in carefully studying the architectural choices, and associated trade-offs, for training generalizable and robust policies.
Interpolated Policy Gradient: Merging On-Policy and Off-Policy Gradient Estimation for Deep Reinforcement Learning,Off-policy model-free deep reinforcement learning methods using previously collected data can improve sample efficiency over on-policy policy gradient techniques. On the other hand, on-policy algorithms are often more stable and easier to use. This paper examines, both theoretically and empirically, approaches to merging on- and off-policy updates for deep reinforcement learning.  Theoretical results show that off-policy updates with a value function estimator can be interpolated with on-policy policy gradient updates whilst still satisfying performance bounds. Our analysis uses control variate methods to produce a family of policy gradient algorithms, with several recently proposed algorithms being special cases of this family. We then provide an empirical comparison of these techniques with the remaining algorithmic details fixed, and show how different mixing of off-policy gradient estimates with on-policy samples contribute to improvements in empirical performance. The final algorithm provides a generalization and unification of existing deep policy gradient techniques, has theoretical guarantees on the bias introduced by off-policy updates, and improves on the state-of-the-art model-free deep RL methods on a number of OpenAI Gym continuous control benchmarks.
Scalable Planning with Tensorflow for Hybrid Nonlinear Domains,Given recent deep learning results that demonstrate the ability to effectively optimize high-dimensional non-convex functions with gradient descent optimization on GPUs, we ask in this paper whether symbolic gradient optimization tools such as Tensorflow can be effective for planning in hybrid (mixed discrete and continuous) nonlinear domains with high dimensional state and action spaces?  To this end, we demonstrate that hybrid planning with Tensorflow and RMSProp gradient descent is competitive with mixed integer linear program (MILP) based optimization on piecewise linear planning domains (where we can compute optimal solutions) and substantially outperforms state-of-the-art interior point methods for nonlinear planning domains.  Furthermore, we remark that Tensorflow is highly scalable, converging to a strong policy on a large-scale concurrent domain with a total of 576,000 continuous actions over a horizon of 96 time steps in only 4 minutes.  We provide a number of insights that clarify such strong performance including observations that despite long horizons, RMSProp avoids both the vanishing and exploding gradients problem. Together these results suggest a new frontier for highly scalable planning in nonlinear hybrid domains by leveraging GPUs and the power of recent advances in gradient descent with highly optmized toolkits like Tensorflow.
Task-based End-to-end Model Learning in Stochastic Optimization,With machine learning techniques becoming more widespread,  it has become common to see prediction algorithms operating within some larger process. However, the criteria by which we train these algorithms often differ from the ultimate criteria on which we evaluate them.  This paper proposes an end-to-end approach for learning probabilistic machine learning models within the context of stochastic programming,  in a manner that directly captures the ultimate task-based objective for which they  will be used. We present two experimental evaluations of the proposed approach, on a classical inventory stock problem and on a real-world electrical grid scheduling task.   In both cases, we show that the proposed approach can outperform traditional modeling and purely black-box policy optimization approaches.
Value Prediction Network,This paper proposes a novel deep reinforcement learning (RL) approach, called Value Prediction Network (VPN), which integrates model-free and model-based RL methods into a single neural network. In contrast to typical model-based RL methods, VPN learns a dynamics model whose abstract states are trained to make option-conditional predictions of future values rather than of future observations. Our experimental results show that VPN has several advantages over both model-free and model-based baselines in a stochastic environment where careful planning is required but building an accurate observation-prediction model is difficult. Furthermore, VPN outperforms Deep Q-Network (DQN) on several Atari games even with short-lookahead planning, demonstrating its potential as a new way of learning a good state representation.
Variable Importance Using Decision Trees,Decision trees and random forests are well established models that not only offer good predictive performance, but also provide rich feature importance information. While practitioners often employ variable importance methods that rely on this impurity-based information, these methods remain poorly characterized from a theoretical perspective. We provide novel insights into the performance of these methods by deriving finite sample performance guarantees in a high-dimensional setting under various modeling assumptions.  We further demonstrate the effectiveness of these impurity-based methods via an extensive set of simulations.
The Expressive Power of Neural Networks: A View from the Width,The expressive power of neural networks is important for understanding deep learning. Most existing works consider this problem from the view of the depth of a network. In this paper, we study how width affects the expressiveness of neural networks. Classical results state that \emph{depth-bounded} (e.g. depth-$2$) networks with suitable activation functions are universal approximators. We show a universal approximation theorem for \emph{width-bounded} ReLU networks: width-$(n+4)$ ReLU networks, where $n$ is the input dimension, are universal approximators. Moreover, except for a measure zero set, all functions cannot be approximated by width-$n$ ReLU networks, which exhibits a phase transition. Several recent works demonstrate the benefits of depth by proving the depth-efficiency of neural networks. That is, there are classes of deep networks which cannot be realized by any shallow network whose size is no more than an \emph{exponential} bound. Here we pose the dual question on the width-efficiency of ReLU networks: Are there wide networks that cannot be realized by narrow networks whose size is not substantially larger? We show that there exist classes of wide networks which cannot be realized by any narrow network whose depth is no more than a \emph{polynomial} bound. On the other hand, we demonstrate by extensive experiments that narrow networks whose depth exceed the polynomial bound by a constant factor can approximate wide and shallow network with high accuracy. Our results provide more comprehensive evidence that depth is more effective than width for the expressiveness of ReLU networks.
SGD Learns the Conjugate Kernel Class of the Network,We show that the standard stochastic gradient decent (SGD) algorithm is guaranteed to learn, in polynomial time, a function that is competitive with the best function in the conjugate kernel space of the network, as defined in Daniely, Frostig and Singer. The result holds for log-depth networks from a rich family of architectures. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first polynomial-time guarantee for the standard neural network learning algorithm for networks of depth more that two.  As corollaries, it follows that for neural networks of any depth between 2 and log(n), SGD is guaranteed to learn, in polynomial time, constant degree polynomials with polynomially bounded coefficients. Likewise, it follows  that SGD on large enough networks can learn any continuous function (not in polynomial time), complementing classical expressivity results. 
Radon Machines: Effective Parallelisation for Machine Learning,In order to simplify the adaptation of learning algorithms to growing amounts of data as well as to the growing need for accurate and confident predictions in critical applications, in this paper we propose a novel and provably effective parallelisation scheme.  In contrast to other parallelisation techniques, our scheme can be applied to a broad class of learning algorithms without further mathematical derivations and without writing a single line of additional code.  We achieve this by treating the learning algorithm as a black-box that is applied in parallel to random data subsets.  The resulting hypotheses are then assigned to the leaves of an aggregation tree which bottom-up replaces each set of hypotheses corresponding to an inner node of the tree by its Radon point.  Considering the confidence parameters epsilon, delta as the input, a learning algorithm is efficient if its sample complexity is polynomial in 1/epsilon, ln(1/delta) and its time complexity is polynomial in its sample complexity. With our parallelisation scheme, the algorithm can achieve the same guarantees when applied on a polynomial number of cores in polylogarithmic time. This result allows the effective parallelisation of a broad class of learning algorithms and is intrinsically related to Nick's class (NC) of decision problems as well as NC-learnability for exact learning. The cost of this parallelisation is in the form of a slightly larger sample complexity. Our empirical study confirms the potential of our parallisation scheme on a range of data sets and for several learning algorithms. 
Noise-Tolerant Interactive Learning Using Pairwise Comparisons,We study the problem of interactively learning a binary classifier using noisy labeling and pairwise comparison oracles, where the comparison oracle answers which one in the given two instances is more likely to be positive. Learning from such oracles has multiple applications where obtaining direct labels is harder but pairwise comparisons are easier, and the algorithm can leverage both types of oracles. In this paper, we attempt to characterize how the access to an easier comparison oracle helps in improving the label and total query complexity. We show that the comparison oracle reduces the learning problem to that of learning a threshold function. We then present an algorithm that interactively queries the label and comparison oracles and we characterize its query complexity under Tsybakov and adversarial noise conditions for the comparison and labeling oracles. Our lower bounds show that our label and total query complexity is almost optimal.
A PAC-Bayesian Analysis of Randomized Learning with Application to Stochastic Gradient Descent,We analyze the generalization properties of randomized learning algorithms -- focusing on stochastic gradient descent (SGD) -- using a novel combination of PAC-Bayes and algorithmic stability. Importantly, our risk bounds hold for all posterior distributions on the algorithm's hyperparameters, including distributions that depend on the training data. This inspires an adaptive sampling algorithm for SGD that optimizes the posterior at runtime. We analyze this algorithm in the context of our risk bounds and evaluate it empirically on a benchmark dataset.
Revisiting Perceptron: Efficient and Label-Optimal Learning of Halfspaces,It has been a long-standing problem to efficiently learn a linear separator using as few labels as possible in the presence of noise. In this work, we propose an efficient perceptron-based algorithm for actively learning homogeneous linear separators under uniform distribution. Under bounded noise, where each label is flipped with probability at most eta, our algorithm achieves near-optimal tilde{O}(\frac{d}{(1-2eta)^2} ln\frac{1}{epsilon}) label complexity in time tilde{O}(\frac{d^2}{epsilon(1-2eta)^2}). Under adversarial noise, where at most a nu = tilde{Omega}(epsilon) fraction of labels can be flipped, our algorithm achieves near-optimal tilde{O} (d ln\frac{1}{epsilon}) label complexity in time tilde{O} (\frac{d^2}{epsilon}). Furthermore, we show that our active learning algorithm can be converted to an efficient passive learning algorithm that has a near-optimal sample complexity with respect to epsilon and d.
Sample and Computationally Efficient Learning Algorithms under S-Concave Distributions,We provide new results for noise-tolerant and sample-efficient learning algorithms under $s$-concave distributions. The new class of $s$-concave distributions is a broad and natural generalization of log-concavity, and includes many important additional distributions, e.g., the Pareto distribution and $t$ distribution. This class has been studied in the context of efficient sampling, integration, and optimization, but  much remains unknown for the geometry of this class of distributions and their applications in the context of learning. The challenge is that unlike the commonly used distributions in learning (uniform or more generally log-concave distributions), this broader class is not closed under the marginalization operator and many such distributions are fat-tailed. In this work, we introduce new convex geometry tools to study the properties of s concave distributions and use these properties to provide bounds on quantities of interest to learning including the probability of disagreement between two halfspaces, disagreement outside a band, and disagreement coefficient. We use these results to significantly generalize prior results for margin-based active learning, disagreement-based active learning, and passively learning of intersections of halfspaces. Our analysis of geometric properties of $s$-concave distributions might be of independent interest to optimization more broadly.
Nearest-Neighbor Sample Compression: Efficiency, Consistency, Infinite Dimensions,We examine the Bayes-consistency of a recently proposed 1-nearest-neighbor-based multiclass learning algorithm. This algorithm is derived from sample compression bounds and enjoys the statistical advantages of tight, fully empirical generalization bounds, as well as the algorithmic advantages of runtime and memory savings. We prove that this algorithm is strongly Bayes-consistent in metric spaces with finite doubling dimension --- the first consistency result for an efficient nearest-neighbor sample compression scheme. Rather surprisingly, we discover that this algorithm continues to be Bayes-consistent even in a certain infinite-dimensional setting, in which the basic measure-theoretic conditions on which classic consistency proofs hinge are violated. This is all the more surprising, since it is known that k-NN is not Bayes-consistent in this setting. We pose several challenging open problems for future research.
Learning Identifiable Gaussian Bayesian Networks in Polynomial Time and Sample Complexity,Learning the directed acyclic graph (DAG) structure of a Bayesian network from observational data is a notoriously difficult problem for which many non-identifiability and hardness results are known. In this paper we propose a provably polynomial-time algorithm for learning sparse Gaussian Bayesian networks with equal noise variance --- a class of Bayesian networks for which the DAG structure can be uniquely identified from observational data --- under high-dimensional settings. We show that $O(k^4 \log p)$ number of samples suffices for our method to recover the true DAG structure with high probability, where $p$ is the number of variables and $k$ is the maximum Markov blanket size. We obtain our theoretical guarantees under a condition called \emph{restricted strong adjacency faithfulness} (RSAF), which is strictly weaker than strong faithfulness --- a condition that other methods based on conditional independence testing need for their success. The sample complexity of our method matches the information-theoretic limits in terms of the dependence on $p$. We validate our theoretical findings through synthetic experiments.
From which world is your graph,Discovering statistical structure from links is a fundamental problem in the analysis of social networks. Choosing a misspecified model, or equivalently, an incorrect inference algorithm will result in an invalid analysis or even falsely uncover patterns that are in fact artifacts of the model. This work focuses on unifying two of the most widely used link-formation models: the stochastic block model (SBM) and the small world (or latent space) model (SWM). Integrating techniques from kernel learning, spectral graph theory, and nonlinear dimensionality reduction, we develop the first statistically sound polynomial-time algorithm to discover latent patterns in sparse graphs for both models. When the network comes from an SBM, the algorithm outputs a block structure. When it is from an SWM, the algorithm outputs estimates of each node's latent position.  
Learning from uncertain curves: The 2-Wasserstein metric for Gaussian processes,We introduce a novel framework for statistical analysis of populations of non-degenerate Gaussian processes (GPs), which are natural representations of uncertain curves. This allows inherent variation or uncertainty in function-valued data to be properly incorporated in the population analysis. Using the 2-Wasserstein metric we geometrize the space of GPs with L^2 mean and covariance functions over compact index spaces. We prove existence and uniqueness of the barycenter of a population of GPs, as well as convergence of the metric and the barycenter to their finite-dimensional counterparts. This justifies practical computations. Finally, we demonstrate our framework through experimental validation on GP datasets representing brain connectivity and climate change. Source code will be released upon publication.
On clustering network-valued data,Community detection, which focuses on clustering nodes or detecting communities in (mostly) a single network, is a problem of considerable practical interest and has received a great deal of attention in the research community. While being able to cluster within a network is important, there are emerging needs to be able to cluster multiple networks. This is largely motivated by the routine collection of network data that are generated from potentially different populations.These networks may or may not have node correspondence. When node correspondence is present, we cluster by summarizing a network by its graphon estimate, whereas when node correspondence is not present, we propose a novel solution for clustering such networks by associating a computationally feasible feature vector to each network based on trace of powers of the adjacency matrix. We illustrate our methods in both simulated and real data sets, and theoretical justifications are given in terms of consistency.
On the Power of Truncated SVD for General High-rank Matrix Estimation Problems,We show that given an estimate $\widehat{\mat A}$ that is close to a general high-rank positive semi-definite (PSD) matrix $\mat A$ in spectral norm (i.e., $\|\widehat{\mat A}-\mat A\|_2 \leq \delta$), the simple truncated Singular Value Decomposition of $\widehat{\mat A}$ produces a multiplicative approximation of $\mat A$ in Frobenius norm. This observation leads to many interesting results on general high-rank matrix estimation problems: 1.High-rank matrix completion: we show that it is possible to recover a {general high-rank matrix} $\mat A$ up to $(1+\varepsilon)$ relative error in Frobenius norm from partial observations, with sample complexity independent of the spectral gap of $\mat A$. 2.High-rank matrix denoising: we design algorithms that recovers a matrix $\mat A$ with relative error in Frobenius norm from its noise-perturbed observations, without assuming $\mat A$ is exactly low-rank. 3.Low-dimensional estimation of high-dimensional covariance: given $N$ i.i.d.~samples of dimension $n$ from $\mathcal N_n(\mat 0,\mat A)$, we show that it is possible to estimate the covariance matrix $\mat A$ with relative error in Frobenius norm with $N\approx n$,improving over classical covariance estimation results which requires $N\approx n^2$.
AdaGAN: Boosting Generative Models,Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) are an effective method for training generative models of complex data such as natural images. However, they are notoriously hard to train and can suffer from the problem of missing modes where the model is not able to produce examples in certain regions of the space. We propose an iterative procedure, called AdaGAN, where at every step we add a new component into a mixture model by running a GAN algorithm on a re-weighted sample. This is inspired by boosting algorithms, where many potentially weak individual predictors are greedily aggregated to form a strong composite predictor. We prove analytically that such an incremental procedure leads to convergence to the true distribution in a finite number of steps if each step is optimal, and convergence at an exponential rate otherwise. We also illustrate experimentally that this procedure addresses the problem of missing modes.
Discovering Potential Influence via Information Bottleneck,Discovering a potential influence from one variable to another variable is of fundamental scientific and practical interest. While existing correlation measures are suitable for discovering average influence, they fail to discover potential influences. To bridge this gap, (i) we postulate a set of natural axioms that we expect a measure of potential influence to satisfy; (ii) we show  that the rate of information bottleneck, i.e., the hypercontractivity coefficient, satisfies all the proposed axioms; (iii) we provide a novel estimator to estimate the hypercontractivity coefficient from samples; and (iv)  numerical experiments  demonstrate that this proposed estimator discovers a potential influence for various indicators of WHO datasets, robust in discovering gene interactions from gene expression time series data, and is statistically more powerful than the estimators for other correlation measures in binary hypothesis testing of canonical potential influences. 
Phase Transitions in the Pooled Data Problem,In this paper, we study the {\em pooled data} problem of identifying the labels associated with a large collection of items, based on a sequence of pooled tests revealing the counts of each label within the pool.  In the noiseless setting with exact recovery, we identify an exact asymptotic threshold on the required number of tests with optimal decoding, and prove a {\em phase transition} between complete success and complete failure.  In addition, we present a novel {\em noisy} variation of the problem, and provide an information-theoretic framework for characterizing the required number of tests for general noise models.  Our results reveal that noise can make the problem considerably more difficult, with strict increases in the scaling laws even at low noise levels.
Coded Distributed Computing for Inverse Problems,Computationally intensive distributed and parallel computing is often bottlenecked by a small set of slow workers known as stragglers. In this paper, we utilize the  emerging idea of ``coded computation'' to design a novel error-correcting-code inspired technique for solving linear inverse problems under specific iterative methods in a parallelized implementation affected by stragglers. Example applications include inverse problems such as personalized PageRank and sampling on graphs. We provably show that our coded-computation technique can reduce the mean-squared error under a computational deadline constraint. In fact, the ratio of mean-squared error of replication-based and coded techniques diverges to infinity as the deadline increases. Our experiments for personalized PageRank performed on real systems and real social networks show that this ratio can be as large as $10^4$. Further, unlike coded-computation techniques proposed thus far, our strategy combines outputs of all workers, including the stragglers, to produce more accurate estimates at the computational deadline. This also ensures that the accuracy degrades ``gracefully'' in the event that the number of stragglers is large.
Revisit Fuzzy Neural Network: Demystifying Batch Normalization and ReLU with Generalized Hamming Network,We revisit fuzzy neural network with a cornerstone notion of \textit{generalized hamming distance}, which provides a novel and theoretically justified approach to rectifying our understanding of traditional neural computing. It turns out many useful neural network methods e.g. batch normalization and rectified linear units could be re-interpreted in the new framework,  and, a rectified generalized hamming network (GNN) is proposed accordingly.  GHN not only lends itself to rigiour analysis within the fuzzy logics theory, but also demonstrates superior performances on a variety of learning tasks in terms of fast learning speed, well-controlled behaviour and simple parameter settings. 
Posterior sampling for reinforcement learning: worst-case regret bounds,We present an algorithm based on posterior sampling (aka Thompson sampling) that achieves near-optimal worst-case regret bounds when the underlying Markov Decision Process (MDP) is communicating with a finite, though unknown, diameter. Our main result is a high probability regret upper bound of $\tilde{O}(D\sqrt{SAT})$ for any communicating MDP with $S$ states, $A$ actions and diameter $D$, when $T\ge S^5A$. Here, regret compares the total reward achieved by the algorithm to the total expected reward of an optimal infinite-horizon undiscounted average reward policy, in time horizon $T$. This result improves over the best previously known upper bound of $\tilde{O}(DS\sqrt{AT})$ achieved by any algorithm in this setting, and matches the dependence on $S$ in the established lower bound of $\Omega(\sqrt{DSAT})$ for this problem.
A framework for Multi-A(rmed)/B(andit) Testing with Online FDR Control,We propose an alternative framework to existing setups for controlling false alarms when multiple A/B tests are run over time. This setup arises in many practical applications, e.g. when pharmaceutical companies test new treatment options against control pills for different diseases, or when internet companies test their default webpages versus various alternatives over time. Our framework proposes to replace a sequence of A/B tests by a sequence of best-arm MAB instances, which can be continuously monitored by the data scientist. When interleaving the MAB tests with an an online false discovery rate (FDR) algorithm, we can obtain the best of both worlds: low sample complexity and any time online FDR control. Our main contributions are: (i) to  propose reasonable definitions of a null hypothesis for MAB instances; (ii) to demonstrate how one can derive an always-valid sequential p-value that allows continuous monitoring of each MAB test; and (iii) to show that using rejection thresholds of online-FDR algorithms as the confidence levels for the MAB algorithms results in both sample-optimality, high power and low FDR at any point in time. We run extensive simulations to verify our claims, and also report results on real data collected from the New Yorker Cartoon Caption contest. 
Monte-Carlo Tree Search by Best Arm Identification,Recent advances in bandit tools and techniques for sequential learning are steadily enabling new applications and are promising the resolution of a range of challenging related problems. We study the game tree search problem, where the goal is to quickly identify the optimal move in a given game tree by sequentially sampling its stochastic payoffs. We develop new algorithms for trees of arbitrary depth, that operate by summarizing all deeper levels of the tree into confidence intervals at depth one, and applying a best arm identification procedure at the root. We prove new sample complexity guarantees with a refined dependence on the problem instance. We show experimentally that our algorithms outperform existing elimination-based algorithms and match  previous special-purpose methods for depth-two trees. 
Minimal Exploration in Structured Stochastic Bandits,This paper introduces and addresses a wide class of stochastic bandit problems where the function mapping the arm to the corresponding reward exhibits some known structural properties. Most existing structures (e.g. linear, lipschitz, unimodal, combinatorial, dueling,...) are covered by our framework. We derive an asymptotic instance-specific regret lower bound for these problems, and develop OSSB, an algorithm whose regret matches this fundamental limit. OSSB is not based on the classical principle of ``optimism in the face of uncertainty'' or on Thompson sampling, and rather aims at matching the minimal exploration rates of sub-optimal arms as characterized in the derivation of the regret lower bound. We illustrate the efficiency of OSSB using numerical experiments in the case of the linear bandit problem and show that OSSB outperforms existing algorithms, including Thompson sampling
Regret Analysis for Continuous Dueling Bandit,The dueling bandit is a learning framework where the feedback information in the learning process is restricted to noisy comparison between a pair of actions. In this paper, we address a dueling bandit problem based on a cost function over a continuous space.   We propose a stochastic mirror descent algorithm  and show that  the algorithm achieves an $O(sqrt{Tlog T})$-regret bound under strong convexity and smoothness assumptions for the cost function. Then, we clarify the equivalence between regret minimization in dueling bandit and convex optimization for the cost function.  Moreover, considering a lower bound in convex optimization, it is turned out that our algorithm achieves the optimal convergence rate in convex optimization and the optimal regret in dueling bandit except for a logarithmic factor. 
Elementary Symmetric Polynomials for Optimal Experimental Design,We revisit the classical problem of optimal experimental design (OED) under a new mathematical model grounded in a geometric motivation. Specifically, we introduce models based on elementary symmetric polynomials; these polynomials capture "partial volumes" and offer a graded interpolation between the widely used A-optimal and D-optimal design models, obtaining each of them as special cases. We analyze properties of our models, and derive both greedy and convex-relaxation algorithms for computing the associated designs. Our analysis establishes approximation guarantees on these algorithms, while our empirical results substantiate our claims and demonstrate a curious phenomenon concerning our greedy algorithm. Finally, as a byproduct, we obtain new results on the theory of elementary symmetric polynomials that may be of independent interest.
Online Learning of Linear Dynamical Systems,We present an efficient and practical algorithm for the online prediction of discrete-time linear dynamical systems. Despite the non-convex optimization problem, using improper learning and convex relaxation our algorithm comes with provable guarantees: it has near-optimal regret bounds compared to the best LDS in hindsight, while overparameterizing by only a small logarithmic factor. Our analysis brings together ideas from improper learning by convex relaxations, online regret minimization, and the spectral theory of Hankel matrices.
Efficient and Flexible Inference for Stochastic Systems,Many real world dynamical systems are described by stochastic differential equations. Thus parameter inference is a challenging and important problem in many disciplines. We provide a grid free and flexible algorithm offering parameter and state inference for stochastic systems and compare our approch based on variational approximations to state of the art methods showing significant advantages both in runtime and accuracy.
Group Sparse Additive Machine,A family of learning algorithms generated from additive models have attracted much attention recently for their flexibility and interpretability in high dimensional data analysis. Among them, learning models with grouped variables have shown competitive performance for prediction and variable selection. However, the previous works mainly focus on the least squares regression problem, not the classification task. Thus, it is desired to design the new additive classification model with variable selection capability for many real-world applications which focus on high-dimensional data classification. To address this challenging problem, in this paper, we investigate the classification with group sparse additive models in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces. A novel classification method, called as \emph{group sparse additive machine} (GroupSAM), is proposed to explore and utilize the structure information among the input variables. Generalization error bound is derived and proved by integrating the sample error analysis with empirical covering numbers and the hypothesis error estimate with the stepping stone technique. Our new bound shows that GroupSAM can achieve a satisfactory learning rate with polynomial decay. Experimental results on synthetic data and seven benchmark datasets consistently show the effectiveness of our new approach.
Bregman Divergence for Stochastic Variance Reduction: Saddle-Point and Adversarial Prediction,Adversarial machines, where a learner competes against an adversary, have re-gained much recent interest in machine learning. They are naturally in the form of saddle-point optimization, often with separable structure but sometimes also with unmanageably large dimension. In this work we show that adversarial prediction under multivariate losses can be solved much faster than they used to be. We first reduce the problem size exponentially by using appropriate sufficient statistics, and then we adapt the new stochastic variance-reduced algorithm of Balamurugan & Bach (2016) to allow any Bregman divergence. We prove that the same linear rate of convergence is retained and we show that for  adversarial prediction using KL-divergence we can further achieve a speedup of #example times compared with the Euclidean alternative. We verify the theoretical findings through extensive experiments on two example applications: adversarial prediction and LPboosting.
Online multiclass boosting,Recent work has extended the theoretical analysis of boosting algorithms to multiclass problems and to online settings. However, the multiclass extension is in the batch setting and the online extensions only consider binary classification. We fill this gap in the literature by defining, and justifying, a weak learning condition for online multiclass boosting. This condition leads to an optimal boosting algorithm that requires the minimal number of weak learners to achieve certain accuracy. Additionally we propose an adaptive algorithm which is near optimal and enjoys excellent performance in real data due to its adaptive property. 
Universal consistency and minimax rates for online Mondrian Forest, We establish the consistency of an algorithm of Mondrian Forest~\cite{lakshminarayanan2014mondrianforests,lakshminarayanan2016mondrianuncertainty}, a randomized classification algorithm that can be implemented online.  First, we amend the original Mondrian Forest algorithm proposed in~\cite{lakshminarayanan2014mondrianforests}, that considers a \emph{fixed} lifetime parameter.  Indeed, the fact that this parameter is fixed actually hinders statistical consistency of the original procedure.  Our modified Mondrian Forest algorithm grows trees with increasing lifetime parameters $\lambda_n$, and uses an alternative updating rule, allowing to work also in an online fashion.   Second, we provide a theoretical analysis establishing simple conditions for consistency. Our theoretical analysis also exhibits a surprising fact: our algorithm achieves the minimax rate (optimal rate) for the estimation of a Lipschitz regression function, which is a strong extension of previous results~\cite{arlot2014purf_bias} to an \emph{arbitrary dimension}.
Mean teachers are better role models: Weight-averaged consistency targets improve semi-supervised deep learning results,The recently proposed Temporal Ensembling has achieved state-of-the-art results in several semi-supervised learning benchmarks. It maintains an exponential moving average of label predictions on each training example, and penalizes predictions that are inconsistent with this target. However, because the targets change only once per epoch, Temporal Ensembling becomes unwieldy when learning large datasets. To overcome this problem, we propose Mean Teacher, a method that averages model weights instead of label predictions. As an additional benefit, Mean Teacher improves test accuracy and enables training with fewer labels than Temporal Ensembling. Mean Teacher achieves error rate 4.35\% on SVHN with 250 labels, better than Temporal Ensembling does with 1000 labels.
Learning from Complementary Labels,Collecting labeled data is costly and thus is a critical bottleneck in real-world classification tasks.  To mitigate the problem, we consider a complementary label, which specifies a class that a pattern does not belong to.  Collecting complementary labels would be less laborious than ordinary labels since users do not have to carefully choose the correct class from many candidate classes.  However, complementary labels are less informative than ordinary labels  and thus a suitable approach is needed to better learn from complementary labels.  In this paper, we show that an unbiased estimator of the classification risk can be obtained only from complementary labels, if a loss function satisfies a particular symmetric condition.  We theoretically prove the estimation error bounds for the proposed method, and experimentally demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed algorithms.
Positive-Unlabeled Learning with Non-Negative Risk Estimator,From only \emph{positive}~(P) and \emph{unlabeled}~(U) data, a binary classifier can be trained with PU learning, in which the state of the art is \emph{unbiased PU learning}. However, if its model is very flexible, its empirical risk on training data will go negative and we will suffer from serious overfitting. In this paper, we propose a \emph{non-negative risk estimator} for PU learning. When being minimized, it is more robust against overfitting and thus we are able to train very flexible models given limited P data. Moreover, we analyze the \emph{bias}, \emph{consistency} and \emph{mean-squared-error reduction} of the proposed risk estimator and the \emph{estimation error} of the corresponding risk minimizer. Experiments show that the proposed risk estimator successfully fixes the overfitting problem of its unbiased counterparts.
Semisupervised Clustering, AND-Queries and Locally Encodable Source Coding,Source coding is the canonical problem of data compression in information theory. In a {\em locally encodable} source coding, each compressed bit depends on only few bits of the input. In this paper, we show that a recently popular model of semisupervised clustering is equivalent to locally encodable source coding. In this model, the task is to perform multiclass labeling of unlabeled elements. At the beginning, we can ask in parallel a set of simple queries to an oracle, that provides (possibly erroneous) binary answers  to the queries. The queries cannot involve more than two (or a fixed constant number $\Delta$ of) elements. Now the labeling of all the elements (or clustering) must be done based on the noisy query answers. The goal is to recover all the correct labelings while minimizing the number of such queries. The equivalence to locally encodable source codes leads us to find  lower bounds on the number of queries required in variety of scenarios. We are also able to show fundamental limitations of pairwise `same-cluster' queries - and propose pairwise AND-queries, that provably performs better.
On Learning Errors of Structured Prediction with Approximate Inference,In this work, we try to understand the differences between exact and approximate inference algorithms in structured prediction. We compare the estimation and approximation error of both underestimate and overestimate models. The result shows that, from the perspective of learning errors, performances of approximate inference could be as good as exact inference. The error analyses also suggest a new margin for existing learning algorithms. Empirical evaluations on text classification, sequential labelling and dependency parsing witness the success of approximate inference and the benefit of the proposed margin.
On Optimal Generalizability in Parametric Learning,We consider the parametric learning problem, where the objective of the learner is determined by a parametric loss function. Employing empirical risk minimization with possibly regularization, the inferred parameter vector will be biased toward the training samples. Such bias is measured by the cross validation procedure in practice where the data set is partitioned into a training set used for training and a validation set, which is not used in training and is left to measure the out-of-sample performance. A classical cross validation strategy is the leave-one-out cross validation (LOOCV) where one sample is left out for validation and training is done on the rest of the samples that are presented to the learner, and this process is repeated on all  of the samples. LOOCV is rarely used in practice due to the high computational complexity. In this paper, we first develop a computationally efficient approximate LOOCV (ALOOCV) and provide theoretical guarantees for its performance. Then we use ALOOCV to provide an optimization algorithm for finding the optimal regularizer in the empirical risk minimization framework. In our numerical experiments, we illustrate the accuracy and efficiency of ALOOCV  as well as our proposed framework for the optimal regularizer.
Multi-Objective Non-parametric Sequential Prediction,Online-learning research has mainly been focusing on minimizing one objective function. In many real-world applications, however, several objective functions have to be considered simultaneously. Recently, an algorithm for dealing with several objective functions in the i.i.d. case has been presented.  In this paper, we extend the multi-objective framework to the case of stationary and ergodic processes, thus  allowing dependencies among observations. We first identify an asymptomatic lower bound for any prediction strategy and then present an algorithm whose predictions achieve the optimal solution while  fulfilling  any continuous and convex constraining criterion. 
Fixed-Rank Approximation of a Positive-Semidefinite Matrix from Streaming Data,Several important applications, such as streaming PCA and semidefinite programming, involve a large-scale positive-semidefinite (psd) matrix that is presented as a sequence of linear updates.  Because of storage limitations, it may only be possible to retain a sketch of the psd matrix. This paper develops a new algorithm for fixed-rank psd approximation from a sketch. The approach combines the Nystr{\"o}m approximation with a novel mechanism for rank truncation. Theoretical analysis establishes that the proposed method can achieve any prescribed relative error in the Schatten 1-norm and that it exploits the spectral decay of the input matrix.  Computer experiments show that the proposed method dominates alternative techniques for fixed-rank psd matrix approximation across a wide range of examples. 
Communication-Efficient Stochastic Gradient Descent, with Applications to Neural Networks,Parallel implementations of stochastic gradient descent (SGD) have received significant research attention, thanks to its excellent scalability properties. A fundamental barrier when parallelizing SGD is the high bandwidth cost of communicating gradient updates between nodes; consequently, several lossy compresion heuristics have been proposed, by which nodes only communicate quantized gradients. Although effective in practice, these heuristics do not always guarantee convergence, and it is not clear whether they can be improved.  In this paper, we propose Quantized SGD (QSGD), a family of compression schemes for gradient updates which provides convergence guarantees. QSGD allows the user to smoothly trade off \emph{communication bandwidth} and \emph{convergence time}: nodes can adjust the number of bits sent per iteration, at the cost of possibly higher variance. We show that this trade-off is inherent, in the sense that improving it past some threshold would violate  information-theoretic lower bounds. QSGD guarantees convergence for convex and non-convex objectives,  under asynchrony, and can be extended to stochastic variance-reduced techniques.   When applied to  training deep neural networks for image classification and  automated speech recognition, QSGD leads to significant reductions in  end-to-end training time. For example, on 16GPUs, we can train the ResNet152  network to full accuracy on ImageNet 1.8x faster than the full-precision  variant. 
 Machine Learning with Adversaries: Byzantine Tolerant Gradient Descent,We study the resilience  to Byzantine failures of distributed implementations of Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD). So far, distributed machine learning frameworks have largely ignored the possibility of failures, especially  arbitrary (i.e., Byzantine) ones. Causes of failures include software bugs, network asynchrony, biases in local datasets, as well as attackers trying to compromise the entire system. Assuming a set of $n$ workers, up to $f$  being Byzantine,  we ask how resilient  can SGD be, without limiting the dimension, nor the size of the parameter space. We first show that no gradient aggregation rule based on a linear combination of the vectors proposed by the workers (i.e, current approaches) tolerates a single Byzantine failure. We then formulate a resilience  property of the aggregation rule capturing the basic requirements to guarantee convergence despite $f$   Byzantine workers. We propose \emph{Krum}, an aggregation rule that satisfies our resilience  property, which we argue is the first provably Byzantine-resilient algorithm for distributed SGD. We also report on experimental evaluations of Krum.
Ranking Data with Continuous Labels through Oriented Recursive Partitions,We formulate a supervised learning problem, referred to as continuous ranking, where a continuous real-valued label Y is assigned to an observable r.v. X taking its values in a feature space X and the goal is to order all possible observations x in X by means of a scoring function s : X  R so that s(X) and Y tend to increase or decrease together with highest probability. This problem generalizes bi/multi-partite ranking to a certain extent and the task of finding optimal scoring functions s(x) can be naturally cast as optimization of a dedicated functional cri- terion, called the IROC curve here, or as maximization of the Kendall  related to the pair (s(X), Y ). From the theoretical side, we describe the optimal elements of this problem and provide statistical guarantees for empirical Kendall  maximiza- tion under appropriate conditions for the class of scoring function candidates. We also propose a recursive statistical learning algorithm tailored to empirical IROC curve optimization and producing a piecewise constant scoring function that is fully described by an oriented binary tree. Preliminary numerical experiments highlight the difference in nature between regression and continuous ranking and provide strong empirical evidence of the performance of empirical optimizers of the criteria proposed.
Practical Data-Dependent Metric Compression with Provable Guarantees,We introduce a new distance-preserving compact representation of multi-dimensional point-sets. Given n points in a d-dimensional space where each coordinate is represented using B bits (i.e., dB bits per point), it produces  a representation of size O( d log(d B/epsilon) +log n) bits per point from which one can approximate the distances up to a factor of 1 + epsilon. Our algorithm almost matches the recent bound of Indyk et al, 2017} while being much simpler. We compare our algorithm to Product Quantization (PQ) (Jegou et al, 2011) a state of the art heuristic metric compression method. We evaluate both algorithms on several data sets: SIFT, MNIST, New York City taxi time series and a synthetic one-dimensional data set embedded in a high-dimensional space. Our algorithm produces representations that are comparable to or better than those produced by PQ, while having provable guarantees on its performance.
Clustering Stable Instances of Euclidean k-means.,The Euclidean k-means problem is arguably the most widely-studied clustering problem in machine learning. While the k-means objective is NP-hard in the worst-case, practitioners have enjoyed remarkable success in applying heuristics like Lloyd's algorithm for this problem. To address this disconnect, we study the following question: what properties of real-world instances will enable us to design efficient algorithms and prove guarantees for finding the optimal clustering?   We consider a natural notion called additive perturbation stability that we believe captures many practical instances of Euclidean k-means clustering. Stable instances have unique optimal k-means solutions that does not change even when each point is perturbed a little (in Euclidean distance). This captures the property that k-means optimal solution should be tolerant to measurement errors and uncertainty in the points. We design efficient algorithms that provably recover the optimal clustering for instances that are additive perturbation stable. When the instance has some additional separation, we can design a simple, efficient algorithm with provable guarantees that is also robust to outliers. We also complement these results by studying the amount of stability in real datasets, and demonstrating that our algorithm performs well on these benchmark datasets. 
On Distributed Hierarchical Clustering,Graph clustering is a fundamental task in many data-mining and machine-learning pipelines. In particular, identifying a good hierarchical structure is at the same time a fundamental and challenging problem for several applications. The amount of data to analyze is increasing at an astonishing rate each day. Hence there is a need for new solutions to efficiently compute effective hierarchical clusterings on such huge data.  The main focus of this paper is on minimum spanning tree (MST) based clusterings. In particular, we propose {\em affinity}, a novel hierarchical clustering based on Boruvka's MST algorithm. We prove certain theoretical guarantees for affinity (as well as some other classic algorithms) and show that in practice it is superior to several other state-of-the-art clustering algorithms.  Furthermore, we present two MapReduce algorithms for affinity. The first one works for the case where the input graph is dense and takes constant rounds. It is based on an MST algorithm for dense graphs which improves upon the prior work of Karloff et al. Our second algorithm has no assumption on the density of the input graph and finds the affinity clustering in O(log n) rounds using Distributed Hash Tables (DHTs). We show experimentally that our algorithms are scalable for huge data sets.
Sparse k-Means Embedding, The $k$-means clustering algorithm is a ubiquitous tool in data mining and machine learning that shows promising performance. However, its high computational cost has hindered its applications in broad domains. Researchers have successfully addressed these obstacles with dimensionality reduction methods. Recently, \cite{DBLP:journals/tit/BoutsidisZMD15} develop a state-of-the-art random projection (RP) method for faster $k$-means clustering. Their method delivers many improvements over other dimensionality reduction methods. For example, compared to the advanced singular value decomposition based feature extraction approach, \cite{DBLP:journals/tit/BoutsidisZMD15} reduce the running time by a factor of $\min \{n,d\}\epsilon^2 log(d)/k$ for data matrix $X \in \mathbb{R}^{n\times d} $ with $n$ data points and $d$ features, while losing only a factor of one in approximation accuracy. Unfortunately, they still require $\mathcal{O}(\frac{ndk}{\epsilon^2log(d)})$ for matrix multiplication and this cost will be prohibitive for large values of $n$ and $d$. To break this bottleneck, we carefully build a sparse embedded $k$-means clustering algorithm which requires $\mathcal{O}(nnz(X))$ ($nnz(X)$ denotes the number of non-zeros in $X$) for fast matrix multiplication. Moreover, our proposed algorithm improves on \cite{DBLP:journals/tit/BoutsidisZMD15}'s results for approximation accuracy by a factor of one. Our empirical studies corroborate our theoretical findings, and demonstrate that our approach is able to significantly accelerate $k$-means clustering, while achieving satisfactory clustering performance.
K-Medoids For K-Means Seeding,We show experimentally that the algorithm CLARANS of Ng and Han (1994) finds better K-medoids solutions than the Voronoi iteration algorithm of Hastie et al. (2001). This finding, along with the similarity between the Voronoi iteration algorithm and Lloyd's $K$-means algorithm, motivates us to use CLARANS as a K-means initializer. We show that CLARANS outperforms other algorithms on 23/23 datasets with a mean decrease over k-means-++ of 30% for initialization mean squared error (MSE) and 3% for final MSE. We introduce algorithmic improvements to CLARANS which improve its complexity and runtime, making it an extremely viable initialization scheme for large datasets.  
An Applied Algorithmic Foundation for Hierarchical Clustering,Hierarchical clustering is a data analysis method that has been used for decades.  Despite its widespread use, there is a lack of an analytical foundation for the method.   Having such a foundation would both support the methods currently used and guide future improvements. This paper gives an applied algorithmic foundation for hierarchical clustering.  The goal of this paper is to give an analytic framework supporting observations seen in practice. This paper considers the dual of a problem framework for hierarchical clustering introduced by Dasgupta.   The main results are that one of the most popular algorithms used in practice, average-linkage agglomerative clustering, has a small constant approximation ratio.  Further, this paper establishes that using recursive $k$-means divisive clustering has a very poor lower bound on its approximation ratio, perhaps explaining why is it not as popular in practice.   Motivated by the poor performance of $k$-means, we seek to find divisive algorithms that do perform well theoretically and this paper gives two constant approximation algorithms. This paper represents some of the first work giving a foundation for  hierarchical clustering algorithms used in practice. 
Inhomogoenous Hypergraph Clustering with Applications,Hypergraph partitioning is an important problem in machine learning, computer vision and network analytics. A widely used method for hypergraph partitioning relies on minimizing a normalized sum of the costs of partitioning hyperedges across clusters. Algorithmic solutions based on this approach assume that different partitions of a hyperedge incur the same cost. However, this assumption fails to leverage the fact that different subsets of vertices within the same hyperedge may have different structural importance. We hence propose a new hypergraph clustering technique, termed inhomogeneous hypergraph partitioning, which assigns different costs to different hyperedge cuts. We prove that inhomogeneous partitioning produces a quadratic approximation to the optimal solution if the inhomogeneous costs satisfy submodularity constraints. Moreover, we demonstrate that inhomogenous partitioning offers significant performance improvements in applications such as structure learning of rankings, subspace segmentation and motif clustering. 
Subspace Clustering via Tangent Cones,Given samples lying near any of a number of fixed subspaces, {\em subspace clustering} is the task of grouping the samples based on the their corresponding subspaces. Many subspace clustering methods operate by assigning an affinity to each pair of points and feeding these affinities into a common clustering algorithm. This paper proposes a new paradigm for subspace clustering that computes affinities based on the underlying conic geometry of a union of subspaces. The proposed ``conic subspace clustering'' (CSC) approach considers the convex hull of a collection of normalized data points and the tangent cones at each sample $x$. The union of subspaces underlying the data imposes a strong association between the the tangent cone at a point $x$ and the original subspace containing $x$. In addition to describing this novel geometric perspective, this paper provides a practical algorithm for subspace clustering that leverages this perspective, where a tangent cone membership test to estimate the affinities. This algorithm is accompanied with deterministic and stochastic guarantees on the properties of the learned affinity matrix which directly translate into the overall clustering accuracy. 
Tensor Biclustering,Consider a dataset where data is collected on multiple features of multiple individuals over multiple times. This type of data can be represented as a three dimensional individual/feature/time tensor and has become increasingly prominent in various areas of science. The tensor biclustering problem computes a subset of individuals and a subset of features whose signal trajectories over time lie in a low-dimensional subspace, modeling similarity among the signal trajectories while allowing different scalings across different individuals or different features. We study the information-theoretic limit of this problem under a generative model. Moreover, we propose an efficient spectral algorithm to solve the tensor biclustering problem and analyze its achievability bound in an asymptotic regime. Finally, we show the efficiency of our proposed method in several synthetic and real datasets.
A unified approach to interpreting model predictions,Understanding why a model made a certain prediction is crucial in many applications. However, with large modern datasets the best accuracy is often achieved by complex models even experts struggle to interpret, such as ensemble or deep learning models. This creates a tension between accuracy and interpretability. In response, a variety of methods have recently been proposed to help users interpret the predictions of complex models.  Here, we present a unified framework for interpreting predictions, namely SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations), which assigns each feature an importance for a particular prediction. The key components of the SHAP framework are the identification of a class of additive feature importance measures and theoretical results that there is a unique solution in this class with a set of desired properties. This class unifies six existing methods, and several recent methods in this class do not have these desired properties. This means that our framework can inform the development of new methods for explaining prediction models. We demonstrate that several new methods we presented in this paper based on the SHAP framework show better computational performance and better consistency with human intuition than existing methods.
Efficient Sublinear-Regret Algorithms for Online Sparse Linear Regression,The online sparse linear regression is a task of applying linear regression analysis to examples arriving sequentially subject to a resource constraint that a limited number of features of examples can be observed. Despite its importance in many practical applications, it was recently shown that there is no polynomial-time sublinear-regret algorithm unless {\bf NP}$\subseteq${\bf BPP}, and only an exponential-time sublinear-regret algorithm has been known. In this paper, we introduce mild assumptions to solve the problem. Under the assumptions, we present polynomial-time sublinear-regret algorithms for the online sparse linear regression. In addition, thorough experiments with publically available data demonstrate that our algorithms outperform other known algorithms.
Unbiased estimates for linear regression via volume sampling,Given a full rank matrix X with more columns than rows consider the task of estimating the pseudo inverse $X^+$ based  on the pseudo inverse of a sampled subset of columns (of size at least the number of rows). We show that this is possible if the subset of columns is chosen proportional to the squared volume spanned by the rows of the chosen submatrix (ie, volume sampling). The resulting estimator is unbiased and surprisingly the covariance of the estimator also has a closed form: It equals a specific factor times $X^+X^{+\top}$.  Pseudo inverse plays an important part in solving the linear least squares problem, where we try to predict a label for each column of $X$. We assume labels are expensive and we are only given the labels for the small subset of columns we sample from $X$. Using our methods we show that the weight vector of the solution for the sub problem is an unbiased estimator of the optimal solution for the whole problem based on all  column labels.   We believe that these new formulas establish a fundamental connection between linear least squares and volume sampling. We use our methods to obtain an algorithm for volume sampling that is faster than state-of-the-art and for obtaining bounds for the total loss of the estimated least-squares solution on all labeled columns. 
On Separability of Loss Functions, and Revisiting Discriminative Vs Generative Models,We revisit the classical analysis of generative vs discriminative models for general exponential families, and high-dimensional settings. Towards this, we develop novel technical machinery, including a notion of separability of general loss functions, which allow us to provide a general framework to obtain l convergence rates for general M-estimators. We use this machinery to analyze l and l2 convergence rates of generative and discriminative models, and provide insights into their nuanced behaviors in high-dimensions. Our results are also applicable to differential parameter estimation, where the quantity of interest is the difference between generative model parameters. 
Generalized Linear Model Regression under Distance-to-set Penalties,Estimation in generalized linear models (GLM) is complicated by the presence of constraints. One can handle constraints by maximizing a penalized log-likelihood. Penalties such as the lasso are effective in high dimensions but often lead to severe shrinkage. This paper explores instead penalizing the squared distance to constraint sets. Distance penalties are more flexible than algebraic and regularization penalties, and avoid the drawback of shrinkage. To optimize distance penalized objectives, we make use of the majorization-minimization principle. Resulting algorithms constructed within this framework are amenable to acceleration and come with global convergence guarantees. Applications to shape constraints, sparse regression, and rank-restricted matrix regression on synthetic and real data showcase the strong empirical performance of distance penalization, even under non-convex constraints.
Group Additive Structure Identification for Kernel Nonparametric Regression,The additive model is one of the most popularly used models for high dimensional nonparametric regression analysis. However, its main drawback is that it neglects possible interactions between predictor variables. In this paper, we reexamine the group additive model proposed in the literature, and rigorously define the intrinsic group additive structure for the relationship between the response variable $Y$ and the predictor vector $\vect{X}$, and further develop an effective structure-penalized kernel method for simultaneous identification of the intrinsic group additive structure and nonparametric function estimation. The method utilizes a novel complexity measure we derive for group additive structures. We show that the proposed method is consistent in identifying the intrinsic group additive structure.  Simulation study and real data applications demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method as a general tool for high dimensional nonparametric regression.
Learning Overcomplete HMMs,We study the basic problem of learning overcomplete HMMs which have many hidden states but a small output alphabet. Despite having significant practical importance, such HMMs are poorly understood with no known positive or negative results for efficient learning. In this paper, we present several new results---both positive and negative---which help define the boundaries between the tractable-learning setting and the intractable setting. We show positive results for a large subclass of HMMs whose transition matrices are sparse, well-conditioned and have small probability mass on short cycles. We also show that learning is impossible given only a polynomial number of samples for HMMs with a small output alphabet and whose transition matrices are random regular graphs with large degree. 
Matrix Norm Estimation from a Few Entries,Singular values of a data in a matrix form provide insights on the structure of the data, the effective dimensionality, and the choice of hyper-parameters on higher-level data analysis tools. However, in many practical applications such as collaborative filtering and network analysis,  we only get a partial observation. Under such scenarios, we consider the fundamental problem of recovering various spectral properties of the underlying matrix from a sampling of its entries. We propose a framework of first estimating the Schatten $k$-norms of a matrix for several values of $k$, and using these as surrogates for estimating spectral properties of interest, such as   the spectrum itself or the rank.  This paper focuses on the technical challenges in accurately estimating the Schatten norms from a sampling of a matrix. We introduce  a novel unbiased estimator based on counting small structures in a graph and provide  guarantees that match its empirical performances.  Our theoretical analysis shows that Schatten norms can be recovered accurately from strictly smaller number of samples compared to what is needed to recover the underlying low-rank matrix. Numerical experiments suggest that we significantly improve upon a competing approach of using matrix completion methods. 
Optimal Shrinkage of Singular Values Under Random Data Contamination,A low rank matrix X has been contaminated by uniformly distributed noise, missing values, outliers and corrupt entries. Reconstruction of X from the singular values and singular vectors of the  contaminated matrix Y is a key problem in machine learning, computer vision and data science.  In this paper we show that common contamination models   (including arbitrary combinations of uniform noise, missing values, outliers and corrupt entries) can be described efficiently using a single framework. We develop an asymptotically optimal algorithm that estimates X by manipulation of the singular values of Y, which applies to any of the contamination models considered.  Finally, we find an explicit signal-to-noise cutoff, below which estimation of X from the singular value decomposition of Y must fail, in a well-defined sense.   
A New Theory for Nonconvex Matrix Completion,Prevalent matrix completion theories reply on an assumption that the locations of the missing data are distributed uniformly and randomly (i.e., uniform sampling). Nevertheless, the reason for observations being missing often depends on the unseen observations themselves, and thus the missing data in practice usually occurs in a nonuniform fashion rather than randomly. To break through the limits of the randomness assumption, this paper introduces a new hypothesis called isomeric condition, which is provably weaker than the randomness assumption and arguably holds even when the missing data is placed irregularly. Equipped with this new tool, we prove a series of theorems for missing data recovery and matrix completion. In particular, we prove that the exact solutions that identify the target matrix are included as critical points by the commonly used nonconvex programs. Unlike the existing nonconvex theories, which use the same condition as convex programs, our theories show that nonconvex programs can work with a much weaker condition. Comparing to the existing theories on nonuniform sampling, our theories are more flexible and powerful.
Learning Low-Dimensional Metrics,This paper investigates the theoretical foundations of metric learning, focused on three key questions that are not fully addressed in prior work: 1) we consider learning general low-dimensional (low-rank) metrics as well as sparse metrics; 2) we develop upper and lower (minimax) bounds on the generalization error; 3) we quantify the sample complexity of metric learning in terms of the dimension of the feature space and the dimension/rank of the underlying metric; 4)  we also bound the accuracy of the learned metric relative to the underlying true generative metric.  All the results involve novel mathematical approaches to the metric learning problem, and also shed new light on the special case of ordinal embedding (aka non-metric multidimensional scaling).  
Fast Alternating Minimization Algorithms for Dictionary Learning,We present theoretical guarantees for an alternating minimization algorithm for the dictionary learning/sparse coding problem. The dictionary learning problem is to factorize samples $y$ into an appropriate basis (dictionary) $A^*$ times a sparse vector $x^*$. Our algorithm is a simple alternating minimization procedure switching between gradient descent and $\ell_1$ minimization at every step. Dictionary learning and specifically alternating minimization algorithms for dictionary learning are well studied both theoretically and empirically. However, in contrast to previous theoretical analysis for this problem we replace the condition on the operator norm of the true underlying dictionary ($A^*$) with a condition on the matrix infinity norm. This allows us to not only get convergence rates in terms of the error in estimated dictionary in the infinity norm but, also allows us to initialize randomly and converge to the globally optimum. Our guarantees under a reasonable generative model allow for dictionaries with growing operator norms, can handle an arbitrary level of overcompleteness while having sparsity which is information theoretically optimal for incoherent dictionaries. We also present statistical guarantees and present sample complexity guarantees for our algorithm.
Consistent Robust Regression,We present the first efficient and provably consistent estimator for the robust regression problem. The area of robust learning and optimization has generated a significant amount of interest in the learning and statistics communities in recent years owing to its applicability in scenarios with corrupted data, as well as in handling model mis-specifications. In particular, special interest has been devoted to the fundamental problem of robust linear regression where estimators that can tolerate corruption in up to a constant fraction of the response variables are widely studied. Surprisingly however, to this date, we are not aware of a polynomial time estimator that offers a consistent estimate in the presence of dense, unbounded corruptions. In this work we present such an estimator, called CRR. This solves an open problem put forward in the work of Bhatia et al (2015). Our consistency analysis requires a novel two-stage proof technique involving a careful analysis of the stability of ordered lists which may be of independent interest. We show that CRR not only offers consistent estimates, but is empirically far superior to several other recently proposed algorithms for the robust regression problem, including extended Lasso and the TORRENT algorithm. In comparison, CRR offers comparable or better model recovery but with runtimes that are faster by an order of magnitude.
Partial Hard Thresholding: A Towards Unified Analysis of Support Recovery,In machine learning and compressed sensing, it is of central importance to understand when a tractable algorithm recovers the support of a sparse signal from its compressed measurements. In this paper, we present a towards principled analysis on the support recovery performance for a family of hard thresholding algorithms. To this end, we appeal to the partial hard thresholding (PHT) operator proposed recently by Jain et al. [IEEE Trans. Information Theory, 2017]. We show that under proper conditions, PHT recovers an arbitrary s-sparse signal within $O(s \kappa \log \kappa)$ iterations where $\kappa$ is the condition number. Specializing the PHT operator, we obtain the best known result for hard thresholding pursuit and orthogonal matching pursuit with replacement. Experiments on the simulated data complement our theoretical findings and also illustrate interesting phase transition through which the iteration number cannot be significantly reduced.
Minimax Estimation of Bandable Precision Matrices,The inverse covariance matrix provides considerable insight for understanding statistical models in the multivariate setting.  In particular, when the distribution over variables is assumed to be multivariate normal, the sparsity pattern in inverse covariance matrix, commonly referred to as the precision matrix, corresponds to the adjacency matrix representation of the Gauss-Markov graph, which encodes conditional independence statements between variables.  Minimax results under the spectral norm have previously been established for covariance matrices, both sparse and banded, and for sparse precision matrices.  We establish minimax estimation bounds for estimating banded precision matrices under the spectral norm. Our results greatly improve upon the existing bounds; in particular, we find that the minimax rate for estimating banded precision matrices matches that of estimating banded covariance matrices.  The key insight in our analysis is that we are able to obtain barely-noisy estimates of (k \times k) subblocks of the precision matrix by inverting slightly wider blocks of the empirical covariance matrix along the diagonal.  Our theoretical results are complemented by experiments demonstrating the sharpness of our bounds. 
Diffusion Approximations for Online Principal Component Estimation and Global Convergence,In this paper, we propose to adopt the diffusion approximation tools to study the dynamics of Oja's iteration which is an online stochastic gradient method for the principal component analysis. Oja's iteration maintains a running estimate of the true principal component from streaming data and enjoys less temporal and spatial complexities. We show that the Oja's iteration for the top eigenvector generates a continuous-state discrete-time Markov chain over the unit sphere. We characterize the Oja's iteration in three phases using diffusion approximation and weak convergence tools. Our three-phase analysis further provides a finite-sample error bound for the running estimate, which matches the minimax information lower bound for PCA under bounded noise. 
Learning Koopman Invariant Subspaces for Dynamic Mode Decomposition,Spectral decomposition of the Koopman operator is attracting attention as a tool for the analysis of nonlinear dynamical systems. Dynamic mode decomposition is a popular numerical algorithm for Koopman spectral analysis; however, we often need to prepare nonlinear observables manually according to the underlying dynamics, which is not always possible since we may not have any a priori knowledge about them. In this paper, we propose a fully data-driven method for Koopman spectral analysis based on the principle of learning Koopman invariant subspaces from observed data. To this end, we propose minimization of the residual sum of squares of linear least-squares regression to estimate a set of functions that transforms data into a form in which the linear regression fits well. We introduce an implementation with neural networks and evaluate performance empirically using nonlinear dynamical systems and applications.
Stochastic Approximation for Canonical Correlation Analysis,We propose novel first-order stochastic approximation algorithms for canonical correlation analysis (CCA). Algorithms presented are instances of noisy matrix stochastic gradient (MSG) and noisy matrix exponential gradient (MEG), and achieve $\epsilon$-suboptimality in the population objective in time $poly(1/\epsilon,1/\delta,d)$ with probability at least $1-\delta$, where $d$ is the input dimensionality. We also consider practical variants of the proposed algorithms and compare them with other methods for CCA both theoretically and empirically. 
Diving into the shallows: a computational perspective on large-scale shallow learning,Remarkable recent success of deep neural networks has not been easy to analyze theoretically. It has been  particularly hard to disentangle relative significance of architecture and optimization in achieving accurate classification on large datasets. On the flip side, shallow methods (e.g. kernel methods) have  encountered obstacles in scaling to large data. Practical methods, such as variants of gradient descent used so successfully in deep learning, seem to perform below par when applied to kernel methods. This difficulty has sometimes been attributed to the limitations of shallow  architecture.   In this paper we first identify a basic limitation in gradient descent-based optimization methods when used in conjunctions with smooth kernels. An analysis demonstrates that only a vanishingly  small fraction of the function space is reachable after a polynomial number of gradient descent iterations. That drastically limits  approximating power of gradient descent for a fixed computational budget and leading to serious over-regularization. The issue is purely algorithmic, persisting even in the limit of infinite data.  To address this shortcoming in practice, we introduce EigenPro iteration, based on a simple and direct preconditioning scheme using a small number of approximate eigenvectors.  It can also be viewed as learning a new kernel optimized for gradient descent.  It turns out that injecting this small amount of approximate second-order information leads to major improvements in convergence. For large data, this translates into significant performance  boost over the state-of-the-art  for kernel methods. In particular, we are able to match or improve the results recently reported in the literature at a small fraction of their computational budget.   Finally, we feel that these results show a need for a broader computational perspective on modern large-scale learning to complement more traditional statistical and convergence analyses.
The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Structured Random Orthogonal Embeddings,We examine a class of embeddings based on structured random matrices with orthogonal rows which can be applied in many machine learning applications including dimensionality reduction and kernel approximation. For both the Johnson- Lindenstrauss transform and the angular kernel, we show that we can select matrices yielding guaranteed improved performance in accuracy and/or speed compared to earlier methods. We introduce matrices with complex entries which give significant further accuracy improvement. We provide geometric and Markov chain-based perspectives to help understand the benefits, and empirical results which suggest that the approach is helpful in a wider range of applications.
Generalization Properties of Learning with Random Features,We study the generalization properties of ridge regression with random features in the statistical learning  framework. We show for the first time that $O(1/\sqrt{n})$ learning bounds can be achieved with only  $O(\sqrt{n}\log n)$  random features rather than $O({n})$  as suggested by previous results. Further,  we prove  faster learning rates and show that they might require more random features, unless they are sampled according to  a possibly problem dependent distribution. Our results shed light on the statistical computational trade-offs in large scale kernelized learning, showing the potential  effectiveness of random features in reducing the computational complexity while keeping optimal generalization properties.
Gaussian Quadrature for Kernel Features,Kernel methods have recently attracted resurgent interest, matching the performance of deep neural networks in tasks such as speech recognition. The random Fourier features map is a technique commonly used to scale up kernel machines, but employing the randomized feature map means that $O(\epsilon^{-2})$ samples are required to achieve an approximation error of at most $\epsilon$. In this paper, we investigate some alternative schemes for constructing feature maps that are deterministic, rather than random, by approximating the kernel in the frequency domain using Gaussian quadrature. We show that deterministic feature maps can be constructed, for any $\gamma > 0$, to achieve error $\epsilon$ with $O(e^{\gamma} + \epsilon^{-1/\gamma})$ samples as $\epsilon$ goes to 0. We validate our methods on datasets in different domains, such as MNIST and TIMIT, showing that deterministic features are faster to generate and achieve comparable accuracy to the state-of-the-art kernel methods based on random Fourier features.
A Linear-Time Kernel Goodness-of-Fit Test,We propose a novel adaptive test of goodness-of-fit, with computational cost linear in the number of samples. We learn the test features that best indicate the differences between observed samples and a reference model, by minimizing the false negative rate. These features are constructed via Stein's method, meaning that it is not necessary to compute the normalising constant of the model. We analyse the asymptotic Bahadur efficiency of the new test, and prove that under a mean-shift alternative, our test always has greater relative efficiency than a previous linear-time kernel test, regardless of the choice of parameters for that test. In experiments, the performance of our method exceeds that of the earlier linear-time test, and matches or exceeds the power of a quadratic-time kernel test. In high dimensions and where model structure may be exploited, our goodness of fit test performs far better than a quadratic-time two-sample test based on the Maximum Mean Discrepancy, with samples drawn from the model.
Convergence rates of a partition based Bayesian multivariate density estimation method,We study a class of non-parametric density estimators under Bayesian settings. The estimators are obtained by adaptively partitioning the sample space. Under a suitable prior, we analyze the concentration rate of the posterior distribution, and demonstrate that the rate does not directly depend on the dimension of the problem in several special cases. Another advantage of this class of Bayesian density estimators is that it can adapt to the unknown smoothness of the true density function, thus achieving the optimal convergence rate without artificial conditions on the density. We also validate the theoretical results by a variety of simulated data sets.
The power of absolute discounting: all-dimensional distribution estimation,Categorical models are the natural fit for many problems. When learning the distribution of categories from samples, high-dimensionality may dilute the data. Minimax optimality is too pessimistic to remedy this issue. A serendipitously discovered estimator, absolute discounting, corrects empirical frequencies by subtracting a constant from observed categories, which it then redistributes among the unobserved. It outperforms classical estimators empirically, and has been used extensively in natural language modeling. In this paper, we rigorously explain the prowess of this estimator using less pessimistic notions. We show (1) that absolute discounting recovers classical minimax KL-risk rates, (2) that it is \emph{adaptive} to an effective dimension rather than the true dimension, (3) that it is strongly related to the Good-Turing estimator and inherits its \emph{competitive} properties. We use power-law distributions as the corner stone of these results. We validate the theory via synthetic data and an application to the Global Terrorism Database.
Optimally Learning Populations of Parameters,Consider the following fundamental estimation problem: there are $n$ entities, each with an unknown parameter $p_i \in [0,1]$, and we observe $n$ independent random variables, $X_1,\ldots,X_n$, with $X_i \sim $ Binomial$(t, p_i)$.  How accurately can one recover the ``histogram'' (i.e. cumulative density function) of the $p_i$s?   While the empirical estimates would recover the histogram to earth mover distance $\Theta(\frac{1}{\sqrt{t}})$ (equivalently, $\ell_1$ distance between the CDFs), we show that, provided $n$ is sufficiently large, we can achieve error $O(\frac{1}{t})$ which is information theoretically optimal. We also extend our results to the multi-dimensional parameter case, capturing settings where each member of the population has multiple associated parameters.  Beyond the theoretical results, we demonstrate that the recovery algorithm performs well in practice on a variety of datasets, providing illuminating insights into several domains, including politics, and sports analytics.
Communication-Efficient Distributed Learning of Discrete Distributions,We initiate a systematic study of distribution learning (or density estimation)  in the distributed model. In this problem the data drawn from an unknown distribution is partitioned across multiple machines. The machines must succinctly communicate with a referee so that in the end the referee can estimate the underlying distribution of the data. The problem is motivated by the pressing  need to build communication-efficient protocols in various distributed systems, where power consumption or limited bandwidth impose stringent communication constraints.  We give the first upper and lower bounds on the communication complexity of nonparametric density estimation of discrete probability distributions under both l1 and the l2 distances.   Specifically, our results include the following:  1. In the case when the unknown distribution is arbitrary and each machine has only one sample, we show that any interactive protocol that  learns the distribution must essentially communicate the entire sample.  2. In the case of structured distributions, such as $k$-histograms and monotone, we design distributed protocols that achieve better communication guarantees than the trivial ones, and show tight bounds in some regimes.
Improved Dynamic Regret for Non-degeneracy Functions,Recently, there has been a growing research interest in the analysis of dynamic regret, which measures the performance of an online learner against a sequence of local minimizers. By exploiting the strong convexity, previous studies have shown that the dynamic regret can be upper bounded by the path-length of the comparator sequence. In this paper, we illustrate that the dynamic regret can be further improved by allowing the learner to query the gradient of the function multiple times, and meanwhile the strong convexity can be weakened to other non-degeneracy conditions. Specifically, we introduce the squared path-length, which could be much smaller than the path-length, as a new regularity of the comparator sequence. When multiple gradients are accessible to the learner, we first demonstrate that the dynamic regret of strongly convex functions can be upper bounded by the minimum of the path-length and the squared path-length. We then extend our theoretical guarantee to functions that are semi-strongly convex or self-concordant. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that semi-strong convexity and self-concordance are utilized to tighten the dynamic regret. 
Parameter-Free Online Learning via Model Selection,We introduce a new framework for deriving efficient algorithms that obtain model selection oracle inequalities in the adversarial online learning setting, also sometimes described as parameter-free online learning. While work in this area has focused on specific, highly-structured, function classes, such as nested balls in a Hilbert space, we eschew this approach and propose a generic meta-algorithm framework which achieves oracle inequalities under minimal structural assumptions. This allows us to derive new computationally efficient algorithms with oracle bounds for a wide range of settings where such results were previously unavailable. We give the first computationally efficient algorithms which work in arbitrary Banach spaces under mild smoothness assumptions --- previous results only applied to the Hilbert case. We further derive new oracle inequalities for various matrix classes, non-nested convex sets, and $\R^{d}$ with generic regularizers. Finally, we generalize further by providing oracle inequalities for arbitrary non-linear classes in the contextual learning model; in particular, we give new algorithms for learning with multiple kernels. These results are all derived through a unified meta-algorithm scheme based on a novel "multi-scale" algorithm for prediction with expert advice based on random playout, which may be of independent interest.
Fast Rates for Bandit Optimization with Upper-Confidence Frank-Wolfe,We consider the problem of bandit optimization, inspired by stochastic optimization and online learning problems with bandit feedback. In this problem, the objective is to minimize a global loss function of all the actions, not necessarily a cumulative loss. This framework allows us to study a very general class of problems, with applications in statistics, machine learning, and other fields. To solve this problem, we analyze the Upper-Confidence Frank-Wolfe algorithm, inspired by techniques for bandits and convex optimization. We give theoretical guarantees for the performance of this algorithm over various classes of functions, and discuss the optimality of these results.
Online Learning with Transductive Regret,We study online learning with the general notion of transductive regret, that is regret with modification rules applying to expert sequences (as opposed to single experts) that are representable by weighted finite-state transducers. We show how transductive regret generalizes existing notions of regret, including: (1) external regret; (2) internal regret; (3) swap regret; and (4) conditional swap regret. We present a general online learning algorithm for minimizing transductive regret. We further extend this work to design efficient algorithms for the time-selection and sleeping expert settings. A by-product of our study is an algorithm for swap regret, which, under mild assumptions, is more efficient than existing methods.
Multi-Armed Bandits with Metric Movement Costs,We consider the non-stochastic Multi-Armed Bandit problem in a setting where there is a fixed and known metric on the action space that determines a cost for switching between any pair of actions. The loss of the online learner has two components: the first is the usual loss of the selected actions, and the second is an additional loss due to switching between actions.  Our main contribution gives a tight characterization of the expected minimax regret in this setting, in terms of a complexity measure $\mathcal{C}$ of the underlying metric which depends on its covering numbers. In finite metric spaces with $k$ actions, we give an efficient algorithm that achieves regret of the form $\widetilde(\max\set{\mathcal{C}^{1/3}T^{2/3},\sqrt{kT}})$, and show that this is the best possible. Our regret bound generalizes previous known regret bounds for some special cases: (i) the unit-switching cost regret $\widetilde{\Theta}(\max\set{k^{1/3}T^{2/3},\sqrt{kT}})$ where $\mathcal{C}=\Theta(k)$, and (ii) the interval metric with regret $\widetilde{\Theta}(\max\set{T^{2/3},\sqrt{kT}})$ where $\mathcal{C}=\Theta(1)$.  For infinite metrics spaces with Lipschitz loss functions, we derive a tight regret bound of $\widetilde{\Theta}(T^{\frac{d+1}{d+2}})$ where $d \ge 1$ is the Minkowski dimension of the space, which is known to be tight even when there are no switching costs. 
Differentially Private Empirical Risk Minimization Revisited: Faster and More General,  In this paper we study differentially private Empirical Risk Minimization(ERM) in different settings. For smooth (strongly) convex loss function with or without (non)-smooth regularization, we give algorithms which achieve either optimal or near optimal utility bound with less gradient complexity compared with previous work.  For ERM with smooth convex loss function in high-dimension($p\gg n$) setting, we give an algorithm which achieves the upper bound with less gradient complexity than previous ones. At last, we generalize the expected excess empirical risk from convex to Polyak-Lojasiewicz condition and give a tighter upper bound of the utility comparing with the result in \cite{DBLP:journals/corr/ZhangZMW17}.
Certified Defenses for Data Poisoning Attacks,Machine learning systems trained on user-provided data are susceptible to data poisoning attacks, whereby malicious users inject data with the aim of corrupting the learned model. While recent work has proposed a number of attacks and defenses, little is understood about the worst-case performance of a defense in the face of a determined attacker. We remedy this by constructing upper bounds on the loss across a broad family of attacks, for defenders that operate via outlier removal followed by empirical risk minimization. Our bound comes paired with a candidate attack that nearly realizes the upper bound, giving us a powerful tool for quickly assessing a defense on a given dataset. Empirically, we find that even under a simple defense, the MNIST-1-7 and Dogfish datasets are certifiably resilient to attack, while in contrast, the IMDB sentiment dataset can be driven from 12% to 23% test error by adding only 3% poisoned data.
Sparse Approximate Conic Hulls,We consider the problem of computing a restricted nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) of an $m\times n$ matrix $X$.  Specifically, we seek a factorization $X\approx BC$, where the $k$ columns of $B$ are a subset of those from $X$ and $C\in\Re_{\geq 0}^{k\times n}$.  Equivalently, given the matrix $X$, consider the problem of finding a small subset, $S$, of the columns of $X$ such that the conic hull of $S$ $\eps$-approximates the conic hull of the columns of $X$, i.e., the distance of every column of $X$ to the conic hull of the columns of $S$ should be at most an $\eps$-fraction of the angular diameter of $X$.   If $k$ is the size of the smallest $\eps$-approximation, then we produce an $O(k/\eps^{2/3})$ sized $O(\eps^{1/3})$-approximation, yielding the first provable, polynomial time $\eps$-approximation for this class of NMF problems, where also desirably the approximation is independent of $n$ and $m$. Furthermore, we prove an approximate conic \Caratheodory theorem, a general sparsity result, that shows that any column of $X$ can be $\eps$-approximated with an $O(1/\eps^2)$ sparse combination from $S$.   Our results are facilitated by a reduction to the problem of approximating convex hulls,  and we prove that both the convex and conic hull variants are d-sum-hard, resolving an open problem.  Finally, we provide experimental results for the convex and conic algorithms on a variety of feature selection tasks.
On Tensor Train Rank Minimization : Statistical Efficiency and Scalable Algorithm,Tensor train (TT) decomposition provides a space-efficient representation for higher-order tensors. Despite its advantage, we face two crucial limitations when we apply the TT decomposition to machine learning problems: the lack of statistical theory and of scalable algorithms. In this paper, we address the limitations. First, we introduce a convex relaxation of the TT decomposition problem and derive its error bound for the tensor completion task. Next, we develop an alternating optimization method with a randomization technique, in which the time complexity is as efficient as the space complexity is. In experiments, we numerically confirm the derived bounds and empirically demonstrate the performance of our method with a real higher-order tensor.
Sparse convolutional coding for neuronal assembly detection,Cell assemblies, originally proposed by Donald Hebb (1949), are subsets of neurons firing in a temporally coordinated way that gives rise to repeated motifs supposed to underly neural representations and information processing. Although Hebb's original proposal dates back many decades, the detection of assemblies and their role in coding is still an open and current research topic, partly because simultaneous recordings from large populations of neurons became feasible only relatively recently. Most current and easy-to-apply computational techniques focus on the identification of strictly synchronously spiking neurons. In this paper we propose a new algorithm, based on sparse convolutional coding, for detecting recurrent motifs of arbitrary structure up to a given length. Testing of our algorithm on synthetically generated datasets shows that it outperforms all established methods and accurately identifies the temporal structure of embedded assemblies, even when these contain overlapping neurons or when strong background noise is present.  Evaluation on experimental datasets from hippocampal slices and cortical neuron cultures with no known ground truth provided promising results that can be related to neurophysiological phenomena.  
Estimating High-dimensional Non-Gaussian Multiple Index Models via Steins Lemma,We consider estimating the parametric components of  semi-parametric multiple index models in a high-dimensional non-Gaussian setting. Our estimators leverage the score function based second-order Stein's lemma and do not require Gaussian or elliptical symmetry assumptions made in the literature. We show that our estimator achieves near-optimal statistical rate of convergence even if the score function or the response variable is heavy-tailed. We utilize a data-driven truncation argument based on which the required concentration results is established. We supplement our theoretical results via simulation experiments that confirm the theory.
Solid Harmonic Wavelet Scattering: Predicting Quantum Molecular Energy from Invariant Descriptors of 3D  Electronic Densities,We introduce a solid harmonic wavelet scattering representation, which is invariant  to rigid movements and stable to deformations, for regression and classification  of 2D and 3D images. Solid harmonic wavelets are computed by multiplying solid  harmonic functions with Gaussian windows dilated to different scales. Invariant  scattering coefficients are obtained by cascading such wavelet transforms with  the complex modulus nonlinearity. We study an application of solid harmonic  scattering invariants to the estimation of quantum molecular energies, which  are also invariant to rigid movements and stable with respect to deformations. We introduce a neural network with a multiplicative non-linearity for regression  over scattering invariants to provide close to state of the art results over  a database of organic molecules. 
Clustering Billions of Reads for DNA Data Storage,Storing data in synthetic DNA offers the possibility of improving information density and durability  by several orders of magnitude compared to current storage technologies. However, DNA data storage requires a computationally intensive process to retrieve the data. In particular, a crucial step in the data retrieval pipeline involves clustering billions of strings with respect to edit distance. We observe that datasets in this domain have many notable properties, such as containing a very large number of small clusters that are well-separated in the edit distance metric space. In this regime, existing algorithms are unsuitable because of either their long running time or low accuracy. To address this issue, we present a novel distributed algorithm for approximately computing the underlying clusters. Our algorithm converges efficiently on any dataset that satisfies certain separability properties, such as those coming from DNA storage systems. We also prove that, under these assumptions, our algorithm is robust to outliers and high levels of noise. We provide empirical justification of the accuracy, scalability, and convergence of our algorithm on real and synthetic data. Compared to the state-of-the-art algorithm for clustering DNA sequences, our algorithm simultaneously achieves higher accuracy and a 1000x speedup on three real datasets.
Deep Recurrent Neural Network-Based Identification of Precursor microRNAs,MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding ribonucleic acids (RNAs) which play key roles in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Direct identification of mature miRNAs is infeasible due to their short lengths, and researchers instead aim at identifying precursor miRNAs (pre-miRNAs). Many of the known pre-miRNAs have distinctive stem-loop secondary structure, and structure-based filtering is usually the first step to predict the possibility of a given sequence being a pre-miRNA. To identify new pre-miRNAs that often have non-canonical structure, however, we need to consider additional features other than structure. To obtain such additional characteristics, existing computational methods rely on manual feature extraction, which inevitably limits the efficiency, robustness, and generalization of computational identification. To address the limitations of existing approaches, we propose a pre-miRNA identification method that incorporates (1) a deep recurrent neural network (RNN) for automated feature learning and classification, (2) multimodal architecture for seamless integration of prior knowledge (secondary structure), (3) an attention mechanism for improving long-term dependence modeling, and (4) an RNN-based class activation mapping for highlighting the learned representations that can contrast pre-miRNAs and non-pre-miRNAs. In our experiments with recent benchmarks, the proposed approach outperformed the compared state-of-the-art alternatives in terms of various performance metrics.
Decoding with Value Networks for Neural Machine Translation,Neural Machine Translation (NMT) has become a popular technology in recent years, and beam search is its de facto decoding method due to the shrunk search space and reduced computational complexity. One issue of beam search is that, since it only searches for local optima at each time step through one-step forward looking, it usually cannot output the best target sentence. Inspired by the success and methodology of AlphaGo, in this paper, we propose using a prediction network to improve beam search, which takes the source sentence $x$, the currently available decoding output $y_1,\cdots, y_{t-1}$, and a candidate word $w$ at step $t$ as inputs and predicts the long-term value (e.g., BLEU score) of the partial target sentence if it is completed by the NMT model. Following the practice in reinforcement learning, we call this prediction network \emph{value network}. Specifically, we propose a recurrent structure for the value network, and train its parameters from bilingual data. During the test time, when  choosing a word $w$ for decoding, we consider both its conditional probability given by the NMT model and its long-term value predicted by the value network. Experiments show that such an approach can significantly improve the translation accuracy on two translation tasks, English-to-French translation and Chinese-to-English translation.
Towards the ImageNet-CNN of NLP: Pretraining Sentence Encoders with Machine Translation,Computer vision has benefited from initializing multiple deep layers with weights pre-trained on large supervised training sets like ImageNet. In contrast, deep models for language tasks currently only benefit from transfer of unsupervised word vectors and randomly initialize all higher layers.  In this paper, we use the encoder of an attentional sequence-to-sequence model trained for machine translation to initialize models for other, different language tasks.  We show that this transfer improves performance over just using word vectors on a wide variety of common NLP tasks: sentiment analysis (SST, IMDb), question classification (QC), entailment (SNLI), and question answering (SQuAD).
Deep Voice 2: Multi-Speaker Neural Text-to-Speech,We introduce a technique for augmenting neural text-to-speech (TTS) with low-dimensional trainable speaker embeddings to generate different voices from a single model. As a starting point, we show improvements over the two state-of-the-art approaches for single-speaker neural TTS: Deep Voice 1 and Tacotron. We introduce Deep Voice 2, which is based on a similar pipeline with Deep Voice 1, but constructed with higher performance building blocks and demonstrates a significant audio quality improvement over Deep Voice 1. We improve Tacotron by introducing a post-processing neural vocoder, and demonstrate a significant audio quality improvement. We then demonstrate our technique for multi-speaker speech synthesis for both Deep Voice 2 and Tacotron on two multi-speaker TTS datasets. We show that a single neural TTS system can learn hundreds of unique voices from less than half an hour of data per speaker, while achieving high audio quality synthesis and preserving the speaker identities almost perfectly.
Modulating early visual processing by language,It is commonly assumed that language refers to high-level visual concepts while leaving low-level visual processing unaffected. This view dominates the current literature in computational models for language-vision tasks, where visual and linguistic input are mostly processed independently before being fused into a single representation. In this paper, we deviate from this classic pipeline and propose to modulate the \emph{entire visual processing} by linguistic input. Specifically, we condition the batch normalization parameters of a pretrained residual network on a language embedding. This approach, which we call MODulated Residual Networks (\MRN), significantly improves strong baselines on two visual question answering tasks. Our ablation study shows that modulating from the early stages of the visual processing is beneficial. 
Multimodal Learning and Reasoning for Visual Question Answering,Reasoning about entities and their relationships from multimodal data is a key goal of Artificial General Intelligence. The visual question answering (VQA) problem is an excellent way to test the reasoning capabilities of an AI model and its multimodal representation learning. However, the current VQA models are oversimplified deep neural networks, comprised of a long short-term memory (LSTM) unit for question comprehension and a convolutional neural network (CNN) for learning single image representation. We argue that the single visual representation contains a limited and general information about the image contents and thus does not limit the model reasoning capabilities. In this work we introduce, a modular neural network model that learns a multimodal and multifaceted representation of the image and the question. The proposed model learns to use the multimodal representation to reason about the image entities and achieves a new state-of-the-art performance on both VQA benchmark datasets, VQA v1.0 and v2.0, by a wide margin. 
Interpretable and Globally Optimal Prediction for Textual Grounding using Image Concepts,Textual grounding is an important but challenging task for human-computer interaction, robotics and knowledge mining. Existing algorithms generally formulate the task as selection of the solution from a set of bounding box proposals obtained from deep net based systems. In this work, we demonstrate that we can cast the problem of textual grounding into a unified framework that permits efficient search over all possible bounding boxes. Hence, we able to consider significantly more proposals and, due to the unified formulation, our approach does not rely on a successful first stage. Beyond, we demonstrate that the trained parameters of our model can be used as word-embeddings which capture spatial-image relationships and provide interpretability. Lastly, our approach outperforms the current state-of-the-art methods on the Flickr 30k Entities and the ReferItGame dataset by 3.08 and 7.77 respectively. 
Multiscale Quantization for Fast Similarity Search,We propose a multiscale quantization approach for fast similarity search on large, high dimensional datasets. The key insight of the approach is that quantization methods, in particular product quantization, perform poorly when there is variance in the norm of the data points. This is a common scenario for real-world datasets, especially when doing product quantization of residuals obtained from coarse vector quantization. To address this issue, we propose a multiscale formulation where we learn a separate scalar quantizer of the residual norms. All parameters are learned jointly in a stochastic gradient descent framework to minimize the overall quantization error. We provide theoretical motivation for the proposed technique, and conduct comprehensive experiments on two large-scale public datasets, demonstrating substantial improvements in recall over existing state-of-the-art methods. 
MaskRNN: Instance Level Video Object Segmentation,Instance level video object segmentation is an important technique for video editing and compression. To capture the temporal coherence, in this paper, we develop MaskRNN, a recurrent neural net approach which fuses in each frame the output of two deep nets for each object instance - a binary segmentation net providing a mask and a localization net providing a bounding box. Due to the recurrent component and the localization component, our method is able to take advantage of long-term temporal structures of the video data as well as rejecting outliers. We validate the proposed algorithm on three challenging benchmark datasets, the DAVIS-2016 dataset, the DAVIS-2017 dataset, and the Segtrack v2 dataset, achieving state-of-the-art performance on all of them.
Flat2Sphere: Learning Spherical Convolution for Fast Features from 360 Imagery,While 360 cameras offer tremendous new possibilities in vision, graphics, and augmented reality, the spherical images they produce make core feature extraction non-trivial. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) trained on images from perspective cameras yield flat" filters, yet 360 images cannot be projected to a single plane without significant distortion. A naive solution that repeatedly projects the viewing sphere to all tangent planes is accurate, but much too computationally intensive for real problems. We propose to learn a spherical convolutional network that translates a planar CNN to process 360 imagery directly in its equirectangular projection. Our approach learns to reproduce the flat filter outputs on 360 data, sensitive to the varying distortion effects across the viewing sphere. The key benefits are 1) efficient feature extraction for 360 images and video, and 2) the ability to leverage powerful pre-trained networks researchers have carefully honed (together with massive labeled image training sets) for perspective images. We validate our approach compared to several alternative methods in terms of both raw CNN output accuracy as well as applying a state-of-the-art flat" object detector to 360 data. Our method yields the most accurate results while saving orders of magnitude in computation versus the existing exact reprojection solution.
Deep Mean-Shift Priors for Image Restoration,In this paper we introduce a natural image prior that directly represents a Gaussian-smoothed version of the natural image distribution. We include our prior in a formulation of image restoration as a Bayes estimator that also allows us to solve noise-blind image restoration problems. The gradient of a bound of our estimator involves the gradient of the logarithm of our prior. This gradient corresponds to the mean-shift vector on the natural image distribution, and we learn the mean-shift vector field using denoising autoencoders. We demonstrate competitive results for noise-blind deblurring, super-resolution, and demosaicing. 
Pixels to Graphs by Associative Embedding,Graphs are a useful abstraction of image content. Not only can graphs represent details about individual objects in a scene but they can capture the interactions between pairs of objects. We present a method for training a convolutional neural network such that it takes in an input image and produces a full graph definition. This is done end-to-end in a single stage with the use of associative embeddings. The network learns to simultaneously identify all of the elements that make up a graph and piece them together. We benchmark on the Visual Genome dataset, and demonstrate state-of-the-art performance on the challenging task of scene graph generation.
3D Shape Reconstruction by Modeling 2.5D Sketch,3D object reconstruction from a single image is a highly under-determined problem, requiring strong prior knowledge of plausible 3D shapes. This introduces challenge for learning-based approaches, as 3D object annotations in real images are scarce. Previous work chose to train on synthetic data with ground truth 3D information, but suffered from the domain adaptation issue when tested on real data.  In this work, we propose an end-to-end trainable framework, sequentially estimating 2.5D sketch and 3D object shape. Our disentangled, two-step formulation has three advantages. First, compared to full 3D shape, 2.5D sketch is much easier to be recovered from 2D image, and to transfer from synthetic to real images. Second, for 3D reconstruction from 2.5D sketch, we can easily transfer the learned model on synthetic data to real images, as rendered 2.5D sketches are invariant to object appearance variations in real images, including lighting, texture, etc. This further relieves the domain adaptation problem. Third, we derive differentiable projective functions from 3D shapes to 2.5D sketch, making the framework end-to-end trainable on real images, requiring no real-image annotations. Our framework achieves state-of-the-art performance on 3D shape reconstruction.  
Temporal Coherency based Criteria for Predicting Video Frames using Deep Multi-stage Generative Adversarial Networks,Predicting the future from a sequence of video frames has been recently a sought after yet challenging task in the field of computer vision and machine learning. Although there have been efforts for tracking using motion trajectories and flow features, the complex problem of generating unseen frames has not been studied extensively. In this paper, we deal with this problem using convolutional models within a multi-stage Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) framework. The proposed method uses two stages of GANs to generate a crisp and clear set of future frames. Although GANs have been used in the past for predicting the future, none of the works consider the relation between subsequent frames in the temporal dimension. Our main contribution lies in formulating two objective functions based on the Normalized Cross Correlation (NCC) and the Pairwise Contrastive Divergence (PCD) for solving this problem. This method, coupled with the traditional L1 loss, has been experimented with three real-world video datasets, viz. Sports-1M, UCF-101 and the KITTI. Performance analysis reveals superior results over the recent state-of-the-art methods.
Learning to Generalize Intrinsic Images with a Structured Disentangling Autoencoder,Intrinsic decomposition from a single image is a highly challenging task, due to its inherent ambiguity and the scarcity of training data. In contrast to traditional fully supervised learning approaches, in this paper we propose learning intrinsic image decomposition by explaining the input image. Our model, the Rendered Intrinsics Network (RIN), joins together an image decomposition pipeline, which predicts reflectance, shape, and lighting conditions given a single image, with a recombination function, a learned shading model used to recompose the original input based off of intrinsic image predictions. Our network can then use unsupervised reconstruction error as an additional signal to improve its intermediate representations. This allows large-scale unlabeled data to be useful during training, and also enables transferring learned knowledge to images of unseen object categories, lighting conditions, and shapes. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method performs well on both intrinsic image decomposition and knowledge transfer.
Unsupervised object learning from dense equivariant image labelling,One of the key challenges of visual perception is to extract abstract models of 3D objects and object categories from visual measurements, which are affected by complex nuisance factors such as viewpoint, occlusion, motion, and deformations. Starting from the recent idea of viewpoint factorization, we propose a new approach that, given a large number of images of an object and no other supervision, can extract a dense object-centric coordinate frame. This coordinate frame is invariant to deformations of the images and comes with a dense equivariant labelling neural network that can map image pixels to their corresponding object coordinates. We demonstrate the applicability of this method to simple articulated objects and deformable objects such as human faces, learning embeddings from random synthetic transformations or optical flow correspondences, all without any manual supervision.
One-Sided Unsupervised Domain Mapping,In unsupervised domain mapping, the learner is given two unmatched datasets $A$ and $B$. The goal is to learn a mapping $G_{AB}$ that translates a sample in $A$ to the analog sample in $B$. Recent approaches have shown that when learning simultaneously both $G_{AB}$ and the inverse mapping $G_{BA}$, convincing mappings are obtained.  In this work, we present a method of learning $G_{AB}$ without learning $G_{BA}$. This is done by learning a mapping that maintains the distance between a pair of samples. Moreover, good mappings are obtained, even by maintaining the distance between different parts of the same sample before and after mapping. We present experimental results that the new method not only allows for one sided mapping learning, but also leads to preferable numerical results over the existing circularity-based constraint. Our entire code will be made publicly available. 
Contrastive Learning for Image Captioning,Image captioning, a popular topic in computer vision, has achieved substantial progress in recent years. However, the distinctiveness of natural descriptions is often overlooked in previous work. It is closely related to the quality of captions, as distinctive captions are more likely to describe images with their unique aspects. In this work, we propose a new learning method, Contrastive Learning (CL), for image captioning. Specifically, via two constraints formulated on top of a reference model, the proposed method can encourage distinctiveness, while maintaining the overall quality of the generated captions. We tested our method on two challenging datasets, where it improves the baseline model by significant margins. We also showed in our studies that the proposed method is generic and can be used for models with various structures.
Dynamic Routing Between Capsules,A capsule is a group of neurons whose activity vector represents the instantiation parameters of a specific type of entity such as an object or object part. We use the length of the activity vector to represent the probability that the entity exists and its orientation to represent the instantiation paramters. Active capsules at one level make predictions, via transformation matrices, for the instantiation parameters of higher-level capsules.  When multiple predictions agree, a higher level capsule becomes active. We show that a discrimininatively trained, multi-layer capsule system achieves state-of-the-art performance on MNIST and is considerably better than a convolutional net at recognizing highly overlapping digits. To achieve these results we use an iterative routing-by-agreement mechanism: A lower-level capsule prefers to send its output to higher level capsules whose activity vectors have a big scalar product with the prediction coming from the lower-level capsule. 
What Uncertainties Do We Need in Bayesian Deep Learning for Computer Vision?,There are two major types of uncertainty one can model. Aleatoric uncertainty captures noise inherent in the observations. On the other hand, epistemic uncertainty accounts for uncertainty in the model -- uncertainty which can be explained away given enough data. Traditionally it has been difficult to model epistemic uncertainty in computer vision, but with new Bayesian deep learning tools this is now possible. We study the benefits of modeling epistemic vs. aleatoric uncertainty in Bayesian deep learning models for vision tasks. For this we present a Bayesian deep learning framework combining input-dependent aleatoric uncertainty together with epistemic uncertainty. We study models under the framework with per-pixel semantic segmentation and depth regression tasks. Further, our explicit uncertainty formulation leads to new loss functions for these tasks, which can be interpreted as learned attenuation. This makes the loss more robust to noisy data, also giving new state-of-the-art results on segmentation and depth regression benchmarks. 
Efficient Optimization for Linear Dynamical Systems with Applications to Clustering and Sparse Coding,Linear Dynamical Systems (LDSs) are fundamental tools for modeling spatio-temporal data in various disciplines. Though rich in modeling, analyzing LDSs is not free of difficulty, mainly because LDSs do not comply with Euclidean geometry and hence conventional learning techniques can not be applied directly. In this paper, we propose an efficient projected gradient descent method to minimize a general form of a loss function and demonstrate how clustering and sparse coding with LDSs can be solved by the proposed method efficiently. To this end, we first derive a novel canonical form for representing the parameters of an LDS, and then show how gradient-descent updates through the projection on the space of LDSs can be achieved dexterously. In contrast to previous studies, our solution avoids any approximation in LDS modeling or during the optimization process. Extensive experiments reveal the superior performance of the proposed method in terms of the convergence and classification accuracy over state-of-the-art techniques.
Label Distribution Learning Forests,Label distribution learning (LDL) is a general learning framework, which assigns to an instance a distribution over a set of labels rather than a single label or multiple labels. Current LDL methods have either restricted assumptions on the expression form of the label distribution or limitations in representation learning, e.g., to learn deep features in an end-to-end manner. This paper presents label distribution learning forests (LDLFs) - a novel label distribution learning algorithm based on differentiable decision trees, which have several advantages: 1) Decision trees have the potential to model any general form of label distributions by a mixture of leaf node predictions. 2) The learning of differentiable decision trees can be combined with representation learning. We define a distribution-based loss function for a forest, enabling all the trees to be learned jointly, and show that an update function for leaf node predictions, which guarantees a strict decrease of the loss function, can be derived by variational bounding. The effectiveness of the proposed LDLFs is verified on several LDL tasks and a computer vision application, showing significant improvements to the state-of-the-art LDL methods.
Graph Matching via Multiplicative Update Algorithm,Graph matching is a fundamental problem in computer vision and machine learning area. This problem can usually be formulated as a Quadratic Programming (QP) problem with doubly stochastic and discrete (integer) constraints. Since it is NP-hard, approximate algorithms are required. In this paper, we present a new algorithm, called Multiplicative Update Graph Matching (MPGM), that develops a multiplicative update technique to solve the QP matching problem. MPGM has three main benefits: (1) theoretically, MPGM solves the general QP problem with doubly stochastic constraint naturally and directly whose convergence and KKT optimality are guaranteed. (2) Empirically, MPGM generally returns a sparse solution and thus can also incorporate the discrete constraint approximately in its optimization. (3) It is efficient and simple to implement. Experiments on both synthetic and real-world matching tasks show the benefits of MPGM algorithm.
Training Quantized Nets: A Deeper Understanding,Currently, deep neural networks are deployed on low-power embedded devices by first training a full-precision model using powerful computing hardware, and then deriving a corresponding low-precision model for efficient inference on such systems. However, training models directly with coarsely quantized weights is a key step towards learning on embedded platforms that have limited computing resources, memory capacity, and power consumption.  Numerous recent publications have studied methods for training quantized network weights, but these studies have mostly been empirical. In this work, we investigate training methods for quantized neural networks from a theoretical viewpoint.  We first explore accuracy guarantees for training methods under convexity assumptions.  We then look at the behavior of algorithms for non-convex problems, and we show that training algorithms that exploit high-precision representations have an important annealing property that purely quantized training methods lack, which explains many of the observed empirical differences between these types of algorithms.  
Inner-loop free ADMM using Auxiliary Deep Neural Networks,We propose a new method that uses apply deep learning techniques to accelerate the popular  alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) solution for inverse problems. The ADMM updates consist of a proximity operator, a least squares regression that includes a big matrix inversion, and an explicit solution for updating the dual variables. Typically, inner loops are required to solve the first two sub-minimization problems due to the intractability of the prior and the matrix inversion. To avoid such drawbacks or limitations, we propose an \textit{inner-loop free} update rule with two pre-trained deep convolutional architectures.  More specifically, we learn a conditional denoising auto-encoder which imposes an implicit data-dependent prior/regularization on ground-truth in the first sub-minimization problem. This design follows an empirical Bayesian strategy, leading to so-called amortized inference. For matrix inversion in the second sub-problem, we learn a convolutional neural network to approximate the matrix inversion, i.e., the inverse mapping is learned by feeding the input through the learned forward network. Note that training this neural network does not require ground-truth or measurements, i.e., it is data-independent. Extensive experiments on both synthetic data and real datasets demonstrate the efficiency and accuracy of the proposed method compared with the conventional ADMM solution using inner loops for solving inverse problems.
Towards Accurate Binary Convolutional Neural Network,We introduce a novel scheme to train binary convolutional neural networks (CNNs) -- CNNs with weights and activations constrained to {-1,+1} at run-time. It has been known that using binary weights and activations drastically reduce memory size and accesses, and can replace arithmetic operations with more efficient bitwise operations, leading to much faster test-time inference and lower power consumption. However, previous works on binarizing CNNs usually result in severe prediction accuracy degradation. In this paper, we address this issue with two major innovations: (1) approximating full-precision weights with the linear combination of multiple binary weight bases; (2) employing multiple binary activations to alleviate information loss. The implementation of the resulting binary CNN, denoted as ABC-Net, is shown to achieve much closer performance to its full-precision counterpart, and even reach the comparable prediction accuracy on ImageNet and forest trail datasets, given adequate binary weight bases and activations.
Runtime Neural Pruning,In this paper, we propose a Runtime Neural Pruning (RNP) framework which prunes the deep neural network dynamically at the runtime. Unlike existing neural pruning methods which produce a fixed pruned model for deployment, our method preserves the full ability of the original network and conducts pruning according to the input image and current feature maps adaptively. The pruning is performed in a bottom-up, layer-by-layer manner, which we model as a Markov decision process and use reinforcement learning for training. The agent judges the importance of each convolutional kernel and conducts channel-wise pruning conditioned on different samples, where the network is pruned more when the image is easier for the task. Since the ability of network is fully preserved, the balance point is easily adjustable according to the available resources. Our method can be applied to off-the-shelf network structures and reach a better tradeoff between speed and accuracy, especially with a large pruning rate.
Structured Embedding Models for Grouped Data,Word embeddings are a powerful approach for analyzing language, and exponential family embeddings (EFE) extend them to other types of data. Here we develop structured exponential family embeddings (S-EFE), a method for discovering embeddings that vary across related groups of data. We study how the word usage of U.S. Congressional speeches varies across states and party affiliation, how words are used differently across sections of the ArXiv, and how the co-purchase patterns of groceries can vary across seasons. Key to the success of our method is that the groups share statistical information. We develop two sharing strategies: hierarchical modeling and amortization. We demonstrate the benefits of this approach in empirical studies of speeches, abstracts, and shopping baskets. We show how SEFE enables group-specific interpretation of word usage, and outperforms EFE in predicting held-out data.
Poincar Embeddings for Learning Hierarchical Representations,Representation learning has become an invaluable approach for learning from symbolic data such as text and graphs. However, while complex symbolic datasets often exhibit a latent hierarchical structure, state-of-the-art methods typically learn embeddings in Euclidean vector spaces, which do not account for this property. For this purpose, we introduce a new approach for learning hierarchical representations of symbolic data by embedding them into hyperbolic space -- or more precisely into an n-dimensional Poincar ball. Due to the underlying hyperbolic geometry, this allows us to learn parsimonious representations of symbolic data by simultaneously capturing hierarchy and similarity. We introduce an efficient algorithm to learn the embeddings based on Riemannian optimization and show experimentally that Poincar embeddings outperform Euclidean embeddings significantly on data with latent hierarchies, both in terms of representation capacity and in terms of generalization ability.
Language modeling with recurrent highway hypernetworks,We provide extensive experimental and theoretical support for the efficacy of recurrent highway networks (RHNs) and recurrent hypernetworks complimentary to the original works. We demonstrate experimentally that RHNs benefit from far better gradient flow than LSTMs, coupled with greatly improved task accuracy. We raise and provide solutions to several theoretical issues with hypernetworks; we believe these will yield further gains in the future, along with dramatically reduced computational cost. By combining RHNs and hypernetworks, we make a significant improvement over current state-of-the-art language modeling performance on Penn Treebank while relying on much simpler regularization. Finally, we argue for RHNs as a drop-in replacement for LSTMs (analogous to LSTMs for vanilla RNNs) and for hypernetworks as a de-facto augmentation (analogous to attention) for recurrent architectures.
Preventing Gradient Explosions in Gated Recurrent Units,A gated recurrent unit (GRU) is a successful recurrent neural network architecture for time-series data. The GRU is typically trained using a gradient-based method, which is subject to the exploding gradient problem in which the gradient increases significantly. This problem is caused by an abrupt change in the dynamics of the GRU due to a small variation in the parameters. In this paper, we find a condition under which the dynamics of the GRU changes drastically and propose a learning method to address the exploding gradient problem. Our method constrains the dynamics of the GRU so that it does not drastically change. We evaluated our method in experiments on language modeling and polyphonic music modeling. Our experiments showed that our method can prevent the exploding gradient problem and improve modeling accuracy.
Wider and Deeper, Cheaper and Faster: Tensorized LSTMs for Sequence Learning,Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) is a popular approach to boosting the ability of Recurrent Neural Networks to store longer term temporal information. The capacity of an LSTM network can be increased by widening and adding layers. However, the former introduces additional parameters, while the latter increases the runtime. As an alternative we propose the Tensorized LSTM in which the hidden states are represented by tensors and updated via a cross-layer convolution. By increasing the tensor size, the network can be widened efficiently without additional parameters since the parameters are shared across different locations in the tensor; by delaying the output, the network can be deepened implicitly with little additional runtime since deep computations for each timestep are merged into temporal computations of the sequence. Experiments conducted on five challenging sequence learning tasks show the potential of the proposed model.
Fast-Slow Recurrent Neural Networks,Processing sequential data of variable length is a major challenge in a wide range of applications, such as speech recognition, language modeling, generative image modeling and machine translation. Here, we address this challenge by proposing a novel recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture, the Fast-Slow RNN (FS-RNN). The FS-RNN incorporates the strengths of both  multiscale RNNs and deep transition RNNs as it processes sequential data on different timescales  and learns complex transition functions from one time step to the next. We evaluate the FS-RNN on two character based language modeling data sets, Penn Treebank and Hutter Prize Wikipedia, where  we improve state of the art results to  1.19 and 1.25 bits-per-character (BPC), respectively. In addition, an ensemble of two FS-RNNs achieves 1.20 BPC on  Hutter Prize Wikipedia outperforming  the best known compression algorithm with respect to the BPC measure. We also present an empirical investigation of the learning and network dynamics of the FS-RNN, which explains the improved performance compared to other RNN architectures. Our approach is general as any kind of RNN cell is a possible building block for the FS-RNN architecture,  and thus can be flexibly applied to different tasks.
Cold-Start Reinforcement Learning with Softmax Policy Gradients,We present a learning algorithm targeted at efficiently solving two fundamental problems in structured output prediction: the exposure-bias problem (in which the model is only exposed to the training data distribution and may fail when exposed to its own predictions), and the wrong-objective problem (in which training the model on convenient objective functions gives suboptimal performance).  The method is based on the policy-gradient approach from reinforcement learning, but succeeds in avoiding two common overhead procedures associated with such approaches, namely warm-start training and variance-reduction for the policy updates. The proposed cold-start reinforcement learning method is based on a new softmax policy. The gradient of the softmax policy combines the efficiency and simplicity of the maximum-likelihood approach with the effectiveness of a reward-based signal. Empirical evidence validates this method on structured output predictions for automatic summarization and image captioning tasks.
Deep Learning for Precipitation Nowcasting: A Benchmark and A New Model,With the goal of making high-resolution forecasts of regional rainfall, precipitation nowcasting has become an important and fundamental technology underlying various public services ranging from rainfall alerts to flight safety. Recently, the convolutional LSTM (ConvLSTM) model has been shown to outperform traditional optical flow based methods for precipitation nowcasting, suggesting that deep learning models have a huge potential for solving the problem. However, the convolutional recurrence structure in ConvLSTM-based models is location-invariant while natural motion and transformation (e.g., rotation) are location-variant in general. Furthermore, since deep-learning-based precipitation nowcasting is a newly emerging area, clear evaluation protocols have not yet been established. To address these problems, we propose both a new model and a benchmark for precipitation nowcasting. Specifically, we go beyond ConvLSTM and propose the Trajectory GRU (TrajGRU) model that can actively learn the location-variant structure for recurrent connections. Besides, we provide a benchmark that includes a real-world large-scale dataset from the Hong Kong Observatory, a new training loss, and a comprehensive evaluation protocol to facilitate future research and gauge the state of the art.
Recurrent Ladder Networks,We propose a recurrent extension of the Ladder network \cite{ladder}, which is motivated by the inference required in hierarchical latent variable models. We demonstrate that the recurrent Ladder is able to handle a wide variety of complex learning tasks that need iterative inference and temporal modeling. The architecture shows close-to-optimal results on temporal modeling of video data, competitive results on music modeling, and improved perceptual grouping based on higher order abstractions, such as stochastic textures and motion cues. We present results for fully supervised, semi-supervised, and unsupervised tasks. The results suggest that the proposed architecture and principles are powerful tools for learning a hierarchy of abstractions, handling temporal information, modeling relations and interactions between objects.
Predictive-State Decoders: Encoding the Future into Recurrent Networks,Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are a vital modeling technique that rely on internal states learned indirectly by optimization of a supervised, unsupervised, or reinforcement training loss. RNNs are used to model dynamic processes that are characterized by underlying latent states whose form is often unknown, precluding its analytic representation inside an RNN. In the Predictive-State Representation (PSR) literature, latent state processes are modeled by an internal state representation that directly models the distribution of future observations, and most recent work in this area has relied on explicitly representing and targeting sufficient statistics of this probability distribution. We seek to combine the advantages of RNNs and PSRs by augmenting existing state-of-the-art recurrent neural networks with PREDICTIVE-STATE DECODERS (PSDs), which add supervision to the networks internal state representation to target predicting future observations. PSDs are simple to implement and easily incorporated into existing training pipelines via additional loss regularization. We demonstrate the effectiveness PSDs with experimental results in three different domains: probabilistic filtering, Imitation Learning, and Reinforcement Learning. Our method improves statistical performance of state-of-the-art recurrent baselines and does so with fewer iterations and less data.
QMDP-Net: Deep Learning for Planning under Partial Observability,This paper introduces QMDP-net, a neural network architecture for planning under partial observability.  The QMDP-net combines the strengths of model-free learning and model-based planning. It is a recurrent policy network, but it represents a policy by connecting a model with a planning algorithm that solves the model, thus embedding the solution structure of planning in a network learning architecture. The QMDP-net is fully differentiable and allows end-to-end training.  We train a QMDP-net in  a set of different environments so that it can generalize over new ones and transfer to larger environments as well. In preliminary experiments, QMDP-net showed strong performance on several robotic tasks in simulation.  Interestingly, while QMDP-net encodes the QMDP algorithm, it sometimes outperforms the QMDP algorithm in the experiments, because of QMDP-nets increased robustness through end-to-end learning.
Filtering Variational Objectives,The evidence lower bound (ELBO) appears in many algorithms for maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) with latent variables because it is a sharp lower bound of the marginal log-likelihood. For neural latent variable models, optimizing the ELBO jointly in the variational posterior and model parameters produces state-of-the-art results. Inspired by the success of the ELBO as a surrogate MLE objective, we consider the extension of the ELBO to a family of lower bounds defined by a Monte Carlo estimator of the marginal likelihood. We show that the tightness of such bounds is asymptotically related to the variance of the underlying estimator. We introduce a special case, the filtering variational objectives, which takes the same arguments as the ELBO and passes them through a particle filter to form a tighter bound. Filtering variational objectives can be optimized tractably with stochastic gradients, and are particularly suited to MLE in sequential latent variable models. In standard sequential generative modeling tasks, we present uniform improvements with the same computational budget over models trained with ELBO and IWAE objectives, include whole nat-per-timestep improvements. 
Unsupervised Learning of Disentangled Latent Representations from Sequential Data,We present a factorized hierarchical variational autoencoder, which learns disentangled representations from sequential data without supervision. Specifically, we exploit the multi-scale nature of information in sequential data by formulating it explicitly within a factorized hierarchical graphical model that imposes sequence-specific priors and global priors to different sets of latent variables. The model is evaluated on two speech corpora to demonstrate, qualitatively, its ability to transform speakers or linguistic content by manipulating different sets of latent variables; and quantitatively, its ability to outperform an i-vector baseline for speaker verification  and reduce the word error rate by as much as 35% in mismatched train/test scenarios for automatic speech recognition tasks.
Neural Discrete Representation Learning,Learning useful representations without supervision remains a key challenge in machine learning. In this paper, we propose a simple yet powerful generative model that learns such discrete representations. Our model, the Vector Quantised-Variational AutoEncoder (VQ-VAE), differs from VAEs in two key ways: the encoder network outputs discrete, rather than continuous, codes; and the prior is learnt rather than static. In order to learn a discrete latent representation, we incorporate ideas from vector quantisation (VQ). Using the VQ method allows the model to circumvent issues of ``posterior collapse'' - where the latents are ignored when they are paired with a powerful autoregressive decoder - typically observed in the VAE framework. Pairing these representations with an autoregressive prior, the model can generate high quality images, videos, and speech as well as doing high quality speaker inpainting, providing further evidence of the utility of the learnt representations.
Variational Memory Addressing in Generative Models,Aiming to augment generative models with external memory, we interpret the output of a memory module with stochastic addressing as a conditional mixture distribution, where a read operation corresponds to sampling a discrete memory address and retrieving the corresponding content from memory. This perspective allows us to apply variational inference to memory addressing, which enables effective training of the memory module by using the target information to guide memory lookups. Stochastic addressing is particularly well-suited for generative models as it naturally encourages multimodality which is a prominent aspect of most high-dimensional datasets. Treating the chosen address as a latent variable also allows us to quantify the amount of information gained with a memory lookup and measure the contribution of the memory module to the generative process. To illustrate the advantages of this approach we incorporate it into a variational autoencoder and apply the resulting model to the task of generative few-shot learning. The intuition behind this architecture is that the memory module can pick a relevant template from memory and the continuous part of the model can concentrate on modeling remaining variations. We demonstrate empirically that our model is able to identify and access the relevant memory contents even with hundreds of unseen Omniglot characters in memory. 
Cortical microcircuits as gated-recurrent neural networks,Cortical circuits exhibit intricate recurrent architectures that are remarkably similar across different brain areas. Such stereotyped structure suggests the existence of common computational principles but they have remained largely elusive. Inspired by gated memory networks, namely long short term memory (LSTM) nets, we introduce a recurrent neural network (RNN) in which information is gated through inhibitory units that are subtractive and balanced (subRNN). We propose that subRNNs have a natural mapping onto known canonical excitatory-inhibitory cortical microcircuits, and show that such networks with subtractive gating are easier to optimise than standard multiplicative gates. Moreover, subRNNs yield a near-exact solution to a standard long-term dependency task, the temporal addition task. Empirical results across several long-term dependency tasks (generalised temporal addition and multiplication, temporal MNIST, and word-level language modelling) show that subRNNs can outperform or achieve similar performance to the LSTM networks we tested. Our work suggests a novel view by which the cortex solves complex contextual problems and provides a first step towards unifying machine learning recurrent networks with their biological counterparts.
Continual Learning with Deep Generative Replay,Attempts to train a comprehensive artificial intelligence capable of solving multiple tasks have been impeded by a chronic problem called catastrophic forgetting. Although simply replaying all previous data alleviates the problem, it requires large memory and even worse, often infeasible in real world applications where the access to past data is limited. Inspired by the generative nature of hippocampus as a short-term memory system in primate brain, we propose the Deep Generative Replay, a novel framework with a cooperative dual model architecture consisting of a deep generative model (generator) and a task solving model (solver). With only these two models, training data for previous tasks can easily be sampled and interleaved with those for a new task. We test our methods in several sequential learning settings involving image classification tasks.
VAE Learning via Stein Variational Gradient Descent,A new method for learning variational autoencoders (VAEs) is developed, based on Stein variational gradient descent. A key advantage of this approach is that one need not make parametric assumptions about the form of the encoder distribution. Performance is further enhanced by integrating the proposed encoder with importance sampling. Excellent performance is demonstrated across multiple unsupervised and semi-supervised problems, including semi-supervised analysis of the ImageNet data, demonstrating the scalability of the model to large datasets.
Learning to Inpaint for Image Compression,We study the design of deep architectures for lossy image compression. We present two architectural recipes in the context of multi-stage progressive encoders and empirically demonstrate their importance on compression performance. Specifically, we show that: 1) predicting the original image data from residuals in a multi-stage progressive architecture facilitates learning and leads to improved performance at approximating the original content and 2) learning to inpaint (from neighboring image pixels) before performing compression reduces the amount of information that must be stored to achieve a high-quality approximation. Incorporating these design choices in a baseline progressive encoder yields an average reduction of over 60% in file size with similar quality compared to the original residual encoder.
Visual Interaction Networks,From just a glance, humans can make rich predictions about the future state of a wide range of physical systems.  Modern approaches from engineering, robotics, and graphics are often restricted to narrow domains and require direct measurements of the underlying states. We introduce the Visual Interaction Network, a general-purpose model for learning the dynamics of a physical system from raw visual observations, and predicting its future states. Our model consists of a perceptual front-end based on convolutional neural networks and a dynamics predictor based on interaction networks. Through joint training, the perceptual front-end learns to parse a dynamic visual scene into a set of factored latent object representations. The dynamics predictor learns to roll these states forward in time by computing their interactions and dynamics, producing a predicted physical trajectory of arbitrary length. We found that from just six input video frames the Visual Interaction Network can generate accurate future trajectories of hundreds of time steps on a wide range of physical systems. Our model can also be applied to scenes with invisible objects, inferring their future states from their effects on the visible objects, and can implicitly infer the unknown mass of objects. Our results demonstrate that the perceptual module and the object-based dynamics predictor module can induce factored latent representations that support accurate dynamical predictions. This work opens new opportunities for model-based decision-making and planning, from raw sensory observations, in complex physical environments.
NeuralFDR: Learning Discovery Thresholds from Hypothesis Features,As datasets grow richer, an important challenge is to leverage the full features in the data to maximize the number of useful discoveries while controlling for false positives. We address this problem in the context of multiple hypotheses testing, where for each hypothesis, we observe a p-value along with a set of features specific to that hypothesis. For example, in genetic association studies, each hypothesis tests the correlation between a variant and the trait. We have a rich set of features for each variant (e.g. its location, conservation, epigenetics etc.) which could inform how likely the variant is to have a true association. However popular testing approaches, such as Benjamini-Hochberg's procedure (BH) and independent hypothesis weighting (IHW), either ignore these features or assume that the features are categorical. We propose a new algorithm, NeuralFDR, which automatically learns a discovery threshold as a function of all the hypothesis features. We parametrize the discovery threshold as a neural network, which enables flexible handling of multi-dimensional discrete and continuous features as well as efficient end-to-end optimization. We prove that NeuralFDR has strong false discovery rate (FDR) guarantees, and show that it makes substantially more discoveries in synthetic and real datasets. Moreover, we demonstrate that the learned discovery threshold is directly interpretable.    
Eigen-Distortions of Hierarchical Representations,We develop a method for comparing hierarchical image representations in terms of their ability to explain perceptual sensitivity in humans.  Specifically, we utilize Fisher information to establish a model-derived prediction of local sensitivity to perturbations around a given natural image.  For a given image, we compute the eigenvectors of the Fisher information matrix with largest and smallest eigenvalues, corresponding to the model-predicted most- and least-noticeable image distortions, respectively.  For human subjects, we then measure the amount of each distortion that can be reliably detected when added to the image, and compare these thresholds to the predictions of the corresponding model.  We use this method to test the ability of a variety of representations to mimic human perceptual sensitivity.  We find that the early layers of VGG16, a deep neural network optimized for object recognition, provide a better match to human perception than later layers, and a better match than a 4-stage convolutional neural network (CNN) trained on a database of human ratings of distorted image quality.  On the other hand, we find that simple models of early visual processing, incorporating one or more stages of local gain control, trained on the same database of distortion ratings, predict human sensitivity significantly better than both the CNN and all layers of VGG16.
On-the-fly Operation Batching in Dynamic Computation Graphs,Dynamic neural networks toolkits such as PyTorch, DyNet, and Chainer offer more flexibility for implementing models that cope with data of varying dimensions and structure, relative to toolkits that operate on statically declared computations (e.g., TensorFlow, CNTK, and Theano). However, existing toolkits - both static and dynamic - require that the developer organize the computations into the batches necessary for exploiting high-performance data-parallel algorithms and hardware. This batching task is generally difficult, but it becomes a major hurdle as architectures become complex. In this paper, we present an algorithm, and its implementation in the DyNet toolkit, for automatically batching operations. Developers simply write minibatch computations as aggregations of single instance computations, and the batching algorithm seamlessly executes them, on the fly, in computationally efficient batches. On a variety of tasks, we obtain throughput similar to manual batches, as well as comparable speedups over single-instance learning on architectures that are impractical to batch manually.
Learning Affinity via Spatial Propagation Networks,In this paper, we propose a spatial propagation networks for learning affinity matrix. We show that by constructing a row/column linear propagation model, the spatially variant transformation matrix constitutes an affinity matrix that models dense, global pairwise similarities of an image. Specifically, we develop a three-way connection for the linear propagation model, which (a) formulates a sparse transformation matrix where all elements can be the output from a deep CNN, but (b) results in a dense affinity matrix that is effective to model any task-specific pairwise similarity. Instead of designing the similarity kernels according to image features of two points, we can directly output all similarities in a pure data-driven manner. The spatial propagation network is a generic framework that can be applied to numerous tasks, which traditionally benefit from designed affinity, e.g., image matting, colorization, and guided filtering, to name a few. Furthermore, the model can also learn semantic-aware affinity for high-level vision tasks due to the learning capability of the deep model. We validate the proposed framework by refinement of object segmentation. Experiments on the HELEN face parsing and PASCAL VOC-2012 semantic segmentation tasks show that the spatial propagation network provides general, effective and efficient solutions for generating high-quality segmentation results.
Supervised Adversarial Domain Adaptation,This work provides a framework for addressing the problem of supervised domain adaptation with deep models. The main idea is to exploit adversarial learning to learn an embedded subspace that simultaneously maximizes the confusion between two domains while semantically aligning their embedded versions. The supervised setting becomes attractive especially when there are only a few target data samples that need to be labeled. In this scenario, alignment and separation of semantic probability distributions is difficult because of the lack of data. We found that by carefully designing a training scheme whereby the typical binary adversarial discriminator is augmented by having to distinguish between four different classes, it is possible to effectively address the supervised adaptation problem. In addition, the approach has a high speed of adaptation, which requires an extremely low number of labeled target training samples, even one per category can be effective. We then extensively compare this approach to the state of the art in domain adaptation in two experiments: one using datasets for handwritten digit recognition, and one using datasets for visual object recognition.
Deep Hyperspherical Learning,Convolution as inner product has been the founding basis of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and the key to end-to-end visual representation learning. Benefiting from deeper architectures, recent CNNs have demonstrated increasingly strong representation abilities. Despite such improvement, the increased depth and larger parameter space have also led to challenges in properly training a network. In light of such challenges, we propose hyperspherical convolution (SphereConv), a novel learning framework that gives angular representations on hyperspheres. We introduce SphereNet, deep hyperspherical convolution networks that are distinct from conventional inner product based convolutional networks. In particular, SphereNet adopts SphereConv as its basic convolution operator and is supervised by generalized angular softmax loss - a natural loss formulation under SphereConv. We show that SphereNet can effectively encode discriminative representation and alleviate training difficulty, leading to easier optimization, faster convergence and better classification performance over convolutional counterparts. We also provide some theoretical justifications for the advantages on hyperspherical optimization. Experiments and ablation studies have verified our conclusion.
Riemannian approach to batch normalization,Batch normalization (BN) has proven to be an effective algorithm for deep neural network training by normalizing the input to each neuron and reducing the internal covariate shift. The space of weight vectors in the BN layer can be naturally interpreted as a Riemannian manifold, which is invariant to linear scaling of weights. Following the intrinsic geometry of this manifold provides a new learning rule that is more efficient and easier to analyze. We also propose intuitive and effective gradient clipping and regularization methods for the proposed algorithm by utilizing the geometry of the manifold. The resulting algorithm consistently outperforms the original BN on various types of network architectures and datasets.
Backprop without Learning Rates Through Coin Betting,Deep learning methods achieve state-of-the-art performance in many application scenarios. Yet, these methods require a significant amount of hyperparameters tuning in order to achieve the best results. In particular, tuning the learning rates in the stochastic optimization process is still one of the main bottlenecks. In this paper, we propose a new stochastic gradient descent procedure for deep networks that does not require any learning rate setting. Contrary to previous methods, we do not adapt the learning rates nor we make use of the assumed curvature of the objective function. Instead, we reduce the optimization process to a game of betting on a coin and propose a learning rate free optimal algorithm for this scenario. Theoretical convergence is proven for convex and quasi-convex functions and empirical evidences show the advantage of our algorithm over popular stochastic gradient algorithms.
On the Convergence of Block Coordinate Descent in Training DNNs with Tikhonov Regularization,By lifting the ReLU function into a higher dimensional space, we develop a smooth multi-convex formulation for training feed-forward deep neural networks (DNNs).  This allows us to  develop a block coordinate descent (BCD) training algorithm consisting of a sequence of numerically well-behaved convex optimizations.  Using ideas from proximal point methods in convex analysis, we prove that this BCD algorithm will converge globally to a stationary point with R-linear convergence rate of order one.  In experiments with the MNIST database, DNNs trained with this BCD algorithm consistently yielded better test-set error rates than identical DNN architectures tarined via all the stochastic gradient descent (SGD) variants in the Caffe toolbox.
Collaborative Deep Learning in Fixed Topology Networks,There is significant recent interest to parallelize deep learning algorithms in order to handle the enormous growth in data and model sizes. While most advances focus on model parallelization and engaging multiple computing agents via using a central parameter server, aspect of data parallelization along with decentralized computation has not been explored sufficiently. In this context, this paper presents a new consensus-based distributed SGD (CDSGD) (and its momentum variant, CDMSGD) algorithm for collaborative deep learning over fixed topology networks that enables data parallelization as well as decentralized computation. Such a framework can be extremely useful for learning agents with access to only local/private data in a communication constrained environment. We analyze the convergence properties of the proposed algorithm with strongly convex and nonconvex objective functions with fixed and diminishing step sizes using concepts of Lyapunov function construction. We demonstrate the efficacy of our algorithms in comparison with the baseline centralized SGD and the recently proposed federated averaging algorithm (that also enables data parallelism) based on benchmark datasets such as MNIST, CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100.
How regularization affects the critical points in linear networks,This paper is concerned with the problem of representing and learning a linear transformation using a linear neural network.  In recent years, there has been a growing interest in the study of such networks in part due to the successes of deep learning. The main question of this body of research and also of this paper pertains to the existence and optimality properties of the critical points for the mean squared loss function.  The primary concern here is the robustness of the critical points with regularization of the loss function.  An optimal control model is introduced for this purpose and a learning algorithm (regularized form of backprop) derived for the same using the Hamilton's formulation of optimal control.  The formulation is used to provide a complete characterization of the critical points in terms of the solutions of a nonlinear matrix-valued equation, referred to as the characteristic equation.  Analytical and numerical tools from bifurcation theory are used to compute the critical points via the solutions of the characteristic equation. The main conclusion is that the critical point diagram can be fundamentally different even with arbitrary small amounts of regularization.
Predicting Organic Reaction Outcomes with Weisfeiler-Lehman Network,The prediction of organic reaction outcomes is a fundamental problem in computational chemistry. Since a reaction may involve hundreds of atoms, fully exploring the space of possible transformations is intractable. The current solution utilizes reaction templates to limit the space, but it suffers from coverage and efficiency issues. In this paper, we propose a template-free approach to efficiently explore the space of product molecules by first pinpointing the reaction center -- the set of nodes and edges where graph edits occur. Since only a small number of atoms contribute to reaction center, we can directly enumerate candidate products.  The generated candidates are scored by a Weisfeiler-Lehman Difference Network that models high-order interactions between changes occurring at nodes across the molecule. Our framework outperforms the top-performing template-based approach with a 10% margin, while running orders of magnitude faster. Finally, we demonstrate that the model accuracy rivals the performance of domain experts.
Predicting Scene Parsing and Motion Dynamics in the Future,It is important for intelligent systems, \textit{e.g.} autonomous vehicles and robotics to anticipate the future in order to plan early and make decisions accordingly. Predicting the future scene parsing and motion dynamics helps the agents understand the visual environment better as the former provides dense semantic segmentations, \textit{i.e.} what and where will the objects present and the later provides dense motion information, \textit{i.e.} how the objects move in the future. In this paper,we propose a novel model to predict the future scene parsing and motion dynamics for unobserved video frames simultaneously. Using history information (preceding frames and corresponding scene parsing results) as input, our model is able to predict the scene parsing and motion for arbitrary time steps ahead. More importantly, our model is superior compared to other methods that predict parsing and motion individually because we solve these two prediction tasks jointly and fully exploit their complementary relationship. To our best  knowledge, this paper is the first aiming to learn to predict the future scene parsing and motion dynamics simultaneously. On the large scale Cityscapes dataset, it is demonstrated that our model produces significantly better parsing and motion prediction compared to well established baselines. In addition, we also present how to predict the steering angle of vehicles using our model, and the good results of which further verify the capability of our model to learn underlying latent parameters.
Houdini: Democratizing Adversarial Examples,Generating adversarial examples is a critical step for evaluating and improving the robustness of learning machines. So far, most existing methods only work for classification and are not designed to alter the true performance measure of the problem at hand. We introduce a novel flexible approach named Houdini for generating adversarial specifically tailored for the final performance measure of the task considered. We successfully apply Houdini to a range of applications such as speech recognition and pose estimation. 
Geometric Matrix Completion with Recurrent Multi-Graph Neural Networks,Matrix completion models are among the most common formulations of recommender systems. Recent works have showed a boost of performance of these techniques when introducing the pairwise relationships between users/items in the form of graphs, and imposing smoothness priors on these graphs. However, such techniques do not fully exploit the local stationary structures on user/item graphs, and the number of parameters to learn is linear w.r.t. the number of users and items. We propose a novel approach to overcome these limitations by using geometric deep learning on graphs. Our matrix completion architecture combines a novel multi-graph convolutional neural network that can learn meaningful statistical graph-structured patterns from users and items, and a recurrent neural network that applies a learnable diffusion on the score matrix. Our neural network system is computationally attractive as it requires a constant number of parameters independent of the matrix size. We apply our method on several standard datasets, showing that it outperforms state-of-the-art matrix completion techniques.
Compression-aware Training of Deep Neural Networks,In recent years, great progress has been made in a variety of application domains thanks to the development of increasingly deeper neural networks. Unfortunately, the huge number of units of these networks makes them expensive both computationally and memory-wise. To overcome this, exploiting the fact that deep networks are over-parametrized, several compression strategies have been proposed. These methods, however, typically start from a network that has been trained in a standard manner, without considering such a future compression. In this paper, we propose to explicitly account for compression in the training process. To this end, we introduce a  regularizer that encourages the parameter matrix of each layer to have low rank during training. We show that this allows us to learn much more compact, yet at least as effective models than state-of-the-art compression techniques.
Non-parametric Neural Networks,Deep neural networks (DNNs) and probabilistic graphical models (PGMs) are the two main tools for statistical modeling. While DNNs provide the ability to model rich and complex relationships between input and independent output variables, PGMs provide the ability to encode dependencies among the output variables themselves. End-to-end training of models with structured graphical dependencies on top of independent neural predictions have recently emerged as principled ways of combining these two paradigms. While these types of models have proven to be powerful in discriminative settings with discrete outputs, extensions to structured and continuous spaces, as well as performing efficient inference in these spaces, are lacking. We propose non-parametric neural networks (N3s), a modular approach that cleanly separates a non-parametric, structured posterior representation from a discriminative inference scheme but allows end-to-end training of both these components. Our experiments evaluate the ability of N3s to capture structured posterior densities (modeling) and compute complex statistics of those densities (inference). We compare our model to a number of baselines, including popular variational and sampling-based inference schemes, in terms of accuracy and speed.
GibbsNet: Iterative Adversarial Inference for Deep Graphical Models,Directed latent variable models formulate the joint distribution p(x,z) = p(z)p(x|z) and have the advantage that sampling is fast and exact, yet have the weakness that we need to specify p(z), often with a simple fixed prior that limits the expressiveness of the model.  Undirected latent variable models discard the requirement that p(z) be specified with a prior, yet sampling from them generally requires an iterative procedure such as blocked gibbs sampling that may require many steps to achieve samples from the joint distribution p(x,z).  We propose a novel approach to learning the joint distribution between the data and a latent code which uses an adversarially learned iterative procedure to gradually refine the joint distribution, p(x,z), to better match with the data distribution on each step.  GibbsNet is the best of both worlds both in theory and in practice.  Achieving the speed and simplicity of a directed latent variable model, it is guaranteed (assuming the adversarial game reaches the virtual training criteria global minimum) to produce samples from p(x,z) with only a few sampling iterations.  Achieving the expressiveness and flexibility of an undirected latent variable model, GibbsNet does away with the need for an explicit p(z) and has the ability to do classification, class-conditional generation, and joint image-attribute modeling in a single model which is not trained for any of these specific tasks.  We show empirically that GibbsNet is able to learn a more complex p(z) and show that this leads to improved inpainting and iterative refinement of p(x,z) for dozens of steps and stable generation without collapse for thousands of steps, despite being trained on only three steps.  
Exploring Generalization in Deep Learning,With a goal of understanding what drives generalization in deep networks, we consider several recently suggested explanations, including norm-based control, sharpness and robustness.  We study how these measures can ensure generalization, highlighting the importance of scale normalization, and making a connection between sharpness and PAC-Bayes theory.  We then investigate how well the measures explain different observed phenomena.
Regularizing Deep Neural Networks by Noise: Its Interpretation and Optimization,Overfitting is one of the most critical challenges in deep neural networks, and there are various types of regularization methods to improve generalization performance. Injecting noises to hidden units during training, e.g., dropout, is known as a successful regularizer, but it is still not clear enough why such training techniques work well in practice and how we can maximize their benefit in the presence of two conflicting objectives---optimizing to true data distribution and preventing overfitting by regularization. This paper addresses the above issues by 1) interpreting that the conventional training methods with regularization by noise injection optimize the lower bound of the true objective and 2) proposing a technique to achieve a tighter lower bound using multiple noise samples per mini-batch. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our idea in several computer vision applications.
Extracting low-dimensional dynamics from multiple large-scale neural population recordings by learning to predict correlations,A powerful approach for understanding neural population dynamics is to extract low-dimensional trajectories from population recordings using dimensionality reduction methods. Current approaches for dimensionality reduction on neural data are limited to single population recordings, and can not identify dynamics embedded across multiple measurements. We propose an approach for extracting low-dimensional dynamics from multiple, sequential recordings. Our algorithm scales to data comprising millions of observed dimensions, making it possible to access dynamics distributed across large populations or multiple brain areas. Building on subspace-identification approaches for dynamical systems, we perform parameter estimation by minimizing a moment-matching objective using a scalable stochastic gradient descent algorithm: The model is optimized to predict temporal covariations across neurons and across time. We show how this approach naturally handles missing data and multiple partial recordings, and can identify dynamics and predict correlations even in the presence of severe subsampling and small overlap between recordings. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach both on simulated data and a whole-brain larval zebrafish imaging dataset.
Adaptive sampling for a population of neurons,Adaptive sampling methods in neuroscience have primarily focused on maximizing the firing rate of a single recorded neuron. When recording from two or more neurons, it is usually not possible to find a single stimulus that maximizes the firing rates of all neurons.  This motivates an objective function that takes into account the recorded population of neurons together.  We propose ``Adept,'' an adaptive sampling method that can optimize population objective functions.  In simulated experiments, we first confirmed that population objective functions elicited more varied stimulus responses than those of single-neuron objective functions.  Then, we tested Adept in a closed-loop electrophysiological experiment in which population activity was recorded from macaque V4, a cortical area known for mid-level visual processing.  Adept uses the outputs of a deep convolutional neural network model as feature embeddings to predict neural responses.  Adept elicited mean stimulus responses 20\% larger than those for randomly-chosen natural images, as well as a larger scatter of stimulus responses.  Such adaptive sampling methods can enable new scientific discoveries when recording from a population of neurons with heterogeneous response properties.
OnACID: Online Analysis of Calcium Imaging Data in Real Time,Optical imaging methods using calcium indicators are critical for monitoring the activity of large neuronal populations in vivo. Imaging experiments typically generate a large amount of data that needs to be processed to extract the activity of the imaged neuronal sources. While deriving such processing algorithms is an active area of research, most existing methods require the processing of large amounts of data at a time, rendering them vulnerable to the volume of the recorded data, and preventing real-time experimental interrogation. Here we introduce OnACID, an Online framework for the Analysis of streaming Calcium Imaging Data, including i) motion artifact correction, ii) neuronal source extraction, and iii) activity denoising and deconvolution. Our approach combines and extends previous work on online dictionary learning and calcium imaging data analysis, to deliver an automated pipeline that can discover and track the activity of hundreds of cells in real time, thereby enabling new types of closed-loop experiments. We apply our algorithm on two large scale experimental datasets, benchmark its performance on manually annotated data, and show that it outperforms a popular offline approach.
Detrended Partial Cross Correlation for Brain Connectivity Analysis,Brain connectivity analysis is a critical component of ongoing human connectome projects to decipher the healthy and diseased brain. Recent work has highlighted the power-law (multi-time scale) properties of brain signals; however, there remains a lack of methods to specifically quantify short- vs. long- range brain connections. In this paper, using detrended partial cross-correlation analysis (DPCCA), we propose a novel functional connectivity measure to delineate brain interactions at multiple time scales, while controlling for covariates. We use a rich simulated fMRI data to validate the proposed method, and apply it to a real fMRI data in a cocaine dependence prediction task. We show that, compared to extant methods, our DPCCA-based approach not only distinguishes short and long range functional connectivity but also improves feature extraction, subsequently increasing classification accuracy. Together, this paper contributes broadly to new computational methodologies to understand neural information processing.
Practical Bayesian Optimization for Model Fitting with Bayesian Adaptive Direct Search,Computational models in fields such as computational neuroscience  are often evaluated via stochastic simulation or numerical approximation. Fitting these models implies a difficult optimization problem over complex, possibly noisy parameter landscapes. Bayesian optimization (BO) has been successfully applied to solving expensive black-box problems in engineering and machine learning.  Here we explore whether BO can be applied as a general tool for model fitting. First, we present a novel BO algorithm, Bayesian adaptive direct search (BADS), that achieves competitive performance with an affordable computational overhead for the running time of typical models. We then perform an extensive benchmark of BADS vs. many common and state-of-the-art nonconvex, derivative-free optimizers on a set of model-fitting problems with real data and models from six studies in behavioral, cognitive, and computational neuroscience. With default settings, BADS consistently finds comparable or better solutions than other methods, showing great promise for BO, and BADS in particular, as a general model-fitting tool.
An Error Detection and Correction Framework for Connectomics,Significant advances have been made in recent years on the problem of neural circuit reconstruction from electron microscopic imagery. Improvements in image acquisition, image alignment, and boundary detection have greatly reduced the achievable error rate. In order to make further progress, we argue that automated error detection is essential for focussing the effort and attention of both human and machine. In this paper, we report on the use of automated error detection as an attention signal for a flood filling error correction module. We demonstrate significant improvements upon the state of the art in segmentation performance. 
GP CaKe: Effective brain connectivity with causal kernels,A fundamental goal in network neuroscience is to understand how activity in one region drives activity elsewhere, a process referred to as effective connectivity. Here we propose to model this causal interaction using integro-differential equations and causal kernels that allow for a rich analysis of effective connectivity. The approach combines the tractability and flexibility of autoregressive modeling with the biophysical interpretability of dynamic causal modeling. The causal kernels are learned nonparametrically using Gaussian process regression, yielding an efficient framework for causal inference. We construct a novel class of causal covariance functions that enforce the desired properties of the causal kernels, an approach which we call GP CaKe. By construction, the model and its hyperparameters have biophysical meaning and are therefore easily interpretable. We demonstrate the efficacy of GP CaKe on a number of simulations and give an example of a realistic application on magnetoencephalography (MEG) data. 
Learning Neural Representations of Human Cognition across Many fMRI Studies,Cognitive neuroscience is enjoying rapid increase in extensive public brain-imaging datasets, now opening the door to design and deploy large-scale statistical models. Targeting a unified perspective for all available data implies finding scalable and automated solutions to an old challenge: how to aggregate heterogeneous information on brain function into a universal cognitive system that relates psychological behavior to brain networks? We cast this challenge in a machine-learning approach to predict conditions from statistical brain maps across different studies. For this, we leverage multi-task learning and multi-scale dimension reduction to learn low-dimensional representations of brain images that carry robust cognitive information and can be robustly associated with psychological stimuli. Our multi-dataset classification model achieves the best prediction performance on several large reference datasets, compared to models that forgo learning a cognitive-aware low-dimension representation; it brings a substantial performance boost to the analysis of small datasets, and can be introspected to identify universal template cognitive concepts.
Mapping distinct timescales of functional interactions among brain networks,Brain processes occur at various timescales, ranging from milliseconds (neurons) to minutes and hours (behavior). Characterizing functional coupling among brain regions at these diverse timescales is key to understanding how the brain produces behavior. Here, we apply instantaneous and lag-based measures of conditional linear dependence, based on Granger-Geweke causality (GC), to infer network connections at distinct timescales from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. Due to the slow sampling rate of fMRI, it is widely held that GC produces spurious and unreliable estimates of functional connectivity, when applied to fMRI data. We challenge this claim combining simulations and a novel machine learning approach. First, we show, with simulated fMRI data, that instantaneous and lag-based GC identify distinct timescales and complementary patterns of functional connectivity. Next, analyzing fMRI recordings from 500 human subjects, we show that a linear classifier trained on either instantaneous or lag-based GC connectivity reliably distinguishes task versus rest brain states, with over 80\% cross-validation accuracy. Importantly, instantaneous and lag-based GC exploit markedly different spatial and temporal patterns of connectivity to achieve robust classification. Our approach provides a novel framework for uncovering and validating functionally connected networks that operate at distinct timescales in the brain.
Robust Estimation of Neural Signals in Calcium Imaging,Calcium imaging is a prominent technology in neuroscience research which allows for simultaneous recording of large numbers of neurons in awake animals. Automated extraction of neurons and their temporal activity in imaging datasets is an important step in the path to producing neuroscience results. However, nearly all imaging datasets typically contain gross contaminating sources which could be contributed by the technology used, or the underlying biological tissue. Although attempts were made to better extract neural signals in limited gross contamination scenarios, there has been no effort to address contamination in full generality through statistical estimation. In this work, we proceed in a new direction and propose to extract cells and their activity using robust estimation. We derive an optimal robust loss based on a simple abstraction of calcium imaging data, and also find a simple and practical optimization routine for this loss with provably fast convergence. We use our proposed robust loss in a matrix factorization framework to extract the neurons and their temporal activity in calcium imaging datasets. We demonstrate the superiority of our robust estimation approach over existing methods on both simulated and real datasets.
Learning the Morphology of Brain Signals Using Alpha-Stable Convolutional Sparse Coding,Neural time-series data contain a wide variety of prototypical signal waveforms (atoms) that are of significant importance in clinical and cognitive research. One of the goals for analyzing such data is hence to extract such `shift-invariant' atoms. Even though some success has been reported with existing algorithms, they are limited in applicability due to their heuristic nature. Moreover, they are often vulnerable to artifacts and impulsive noise, which are typically present in raw neural recordings. In this study, we address these issues and propose a novel probabilistic convolutional sparse coding (CSC) model for learning shift-invariant atoms from raw neural signals containing potentially severe artifacts. In the core of our model, which we call $\alpha$CSC, lies a family of heavy-tailed distributions called $\alpha$-stable distributions. We develop a novel, computationally efficient Monte Carlo expectation-maximization algorithm for inference. The maximization step boils down to a weighted CSC problem, for which we  develop a computationally efficient optimization algorithm. Our results show that the proposed algorithm achieves state-of-the-art convergence speeds. Besides, $\alpha$CSC is significantly more robust to artifacts when compared to three competing algorithms: it can extract spike bursts, oscillations, and even reveal more subtle phenomena such as cross-frequency coupling when applied to noisy neural time series.
Streaming Weak Submodularity: Interpreting Neural Networks on the Fly,In many machine learning applications, it is important to explain the predictions of a black-box classifier. For example, why does a deep neural network assign an image to a particular class? We cast interpretability of black-box classifiers as a combinatorial maximization problem and propose an efficient streaming algorithm to solve it subject to cardinality constraints. By extending ideas from Badanidiyuru et al. [2014], we provide a constant factor approximation guarantee for our algorithm in the case of random stream order and a weakly submodular objective function. This is the first such theoretical guarantee for this general class of functions, and we also show that no such algorithm exists for a worst case stream order. Our algorithm obtains similar explanations of Inception V3 predictions 10 times faster than the state-of-the-art LIME framework of Ribeiro et al. [2016]. 
Decomposable Submodular Function Minimization: Discrete and Continuous,This paper investigates connections between discrete and continuous approaches for decomposable submodular function minimization. We provide improved running time estimates for the state-of-the-art continuous algorithms for the problem using combinatorial arguments. We also provide a systematic experimental comparison of the two types of methods, based on a clear distinction between level-0 and level-1 algorithms.
Differentiable Learning of Submodular Functions,Can we incorporate discrete optimization algorithms within modern machine learning models? For example, is it possible to use in deep architectures a layer whose output is the minimal cut of a parametrized graph? Given that these models are trained end-to-end by leveraging gradient information, the introduction of such layers seems very challenging due to their non-continuous output. In this paper we focus on the problem of submodular minimization, for which we show that such layers are indeed possible. The key idea is that we can continuously relax the output without sacrificing guarantees. We provide an easily computable approximation to the Jacobian complemented with a complete theoretical analysis. Finally, these contributions let us experimentally learn probabilistic log-supermodular models via a bi-level variational inference formulation.
Robust Optimization for Non-Convex Objectives,We consider robust optimization problems, where the goal is to optimize in the worst case over a class of objective functions.  We develop a reduction from robust improper optimization to Bayesian optimization: given an oracle that returns $\alpha$-approximate solutions for distributions over objectives, we compute a distribution over solutions that is $\alpha$-approximate in the worst case.  We show that derandomizing this solution is NP-hard in general, but can be done for a broad class of statistical learning tasks.  We apply our results to robust neural network training and submodular optimization.  We evaluate our approach experimentally on a character classification task subject to adversarial distortion, and robust influence maximization on large networks. 
On the Optimization Landscape of Tensor Decompositions,Non-convex optimization with local search heuristics has been widely used in machine learning, achieving many state-of-art results. It becomes increasingly important to understand why they can work for these NP-hard problems on typical data. The landscape of many objective functions in learning has been conjectured to have the geometric property that ``all local optima are (approximately) global optima'', and thus they can be solved efficiently by local search algorithms. However, establishing such property can be very difficult.   In this paper, we analyze the optimization landscape of the random over-complete  tensor decomposition problem, which has many applications in unsupervised leaning, especially in learning latent variable models. In practice, it can be efficiently solved by gradient ascent on a non-convex objective. We show that for any small constant $\epsilon > 0$, among the set of points with function values $(1+\epsilon)$-factor larger than the expectation of the function, all the local maxima are approximate global maxima. Previously, the best-known result only characterizes the geometry in small neighborhoods around the true components. Our result implies that even with an initialization that is barely better than the random guess, the gradient ascent algorithm is guaranteed to solve this problem.   Our main technique uses Kac-Rice formula and random matrix theory. To our best knowledge, this is the first time when Kac-Rice formula is successfully applied to counting the number of local minima of a highly-structured random polynomial with dependent coefficients. 
Gradient Descent Can Take Exponential Time to Escape Saddle Points,Although gradient descent (GD) almost always escapes saddle points asymptotically [Lee et al., 2016], this paper shows that even with fairly natural random initialization schemes and non-pathological functions, GD can be significantly slowed down by saddle points, and can take exponential time to escape. On the other hand, gradient descent with perturbations [Ge et al., 2015, Jin et al., 2017] is not slowed down by saddle pointsit can find an approximate local minimizer in polynomial time. This result concludes that gradient descent is inherently slower, and justifies the importance of adding perturbations for efficient non-convex optimization. Experiments are also provided to demonstrate our theoretical findings.
Convolutional Phase Retrieval,We study the convolutional phase retrieval problem, which asks us to recover an unknown signal ${\mathbf x} $ of length $n$ from $m$ measurements consisting of the magnitude of its cyclic convolution with a known kernel $\mathbf a$ of length $m$. This model is motivated by applications to channel estimation, optics, and underwater acoustic communication, where the signal of interest is acted on by a given channel/filter, and phase information is difficult or impossible to acquire. We show that when $\mathbf a$ is random and $m \geq \Omega(\frac{ \| \mathbf C_{\mathbf x}\|^2}{ \|\mathbf x\|^2 }  n \mathrm{poly} \log n)$, $\mathbf x$ can be efficiently recovered up to a global phase using a combination of spectral initialization and generalized gradient descent. The main challenge is coping with dependencies in the measurement operator; we overcome this challenge by using ideas from decoupling theory, suprema of chaos processes and the restricted isometry property of random circulant matrices, and recent analysis for alternating minimizing methods.
Implicit Regularization in Matrix Factorization,We study implicit regularization when optimizing an underdetermined quadratic objective over a matrix $X$ with gradient descent on a factorization of X.  We conjecture and provide empirical and theoretical evidence that with small enough step sizes and initialization close enough to the origin, gradient descent on a full dimensional factorization converges to the minimum nuclear norm solution.
Near-linear time approximation algorithms for optimal transport via Sinkhorn iteration,Computing optimal transport distances such as the earth mover's distance is a fundamental problem in machine learning, statistics, and computer vision. Despite the recent introduction of several algorithms with good empirical performance, it is unknown whether general optimal transport distances can be approximated in near-linear time. This paper demonstrates that this ambitious goal is in fact achieved by Cuturi's Sinkhorn Distances, and provides guidance towards parameter tuning for this algorithm. This result relies on a new analysis of Sinkhorn iterations that also directly suggests a new algorithm Greenkhorn with the same theoretical guarantees. Numerical simulations clearly illustrate that Greenkhorn significantly outperforms the classical Sinkhorn algorithm in practice.
On Frank-Wolfe and Equilibrium Computation,We consider the Frank-Wolfe method for constrained convex optimization, a first-order projection-free procedure. We show that this algorithm can be recast in a different light, emerging as a special case of a particular meta-algorithm for computing equilibria (saddle points) of convex-concave zero-sum games. This equilibrium computation trick relies on the existence of no-regret online learning to both generate a sequence of iterates but also to provide a proof of convergence through vanishing regret. We show that our stated equivalence has several nice properties, particularly that it exhibits a modularity that gives rise to various old and new algorithms. We explore a few such resulting methods, and provide experimental results to demonstrate correctness and efficiency.
Greedy Algorithms for Cone Constrained Optimization with Convergence Guarantees,Greedy optimization methods such as Matching Pursuit (MP) and Frank-Wolfe (FW) algorithms regained popularity in recent years due to their simplicity, effectiveness and theoretical guarantees.  MP and FW address optimization over the \textit{linear span} and the \textit{convex hull} of a set of atoms, respectively.  In this paper, we consider the intermediate case of optimization over the \textit{convex cone}, parametrized as the conic hull of a generic atom set, leading to the first principled definitions of non-negative MP algorithms for which we give explicit convergence rates and demonstrate excellent empirical performance. %Our novel algorithms and analysis are not tailored to any particular function or atom set. In particular, we derive sublinear ($\mathcal{O}(1/t)$) convergence on general smooth and convex objectives, and linear convergence ($\mathcal{O}(e^{-t})$) on strongly convex objectives, in both cases for general sets of atoms. Furthermore, we establish a clear correspondence of our algorithms to known algorithms from the MP and FW literature. Our novel algorithms and analyses target general atom sets and general objective functions, and hence are directly applicable to a large variety of learning settings.  
When Cyclic Coordinate Descent Beats Randomized Coordinate Descent,The coordinate descent (CD) methods have seen a resurgence of recent interest because of their applicability in machine learning as well as large scale data analysis and superior empirical performance. CD methods have two variants, cyclic coordinate descent (CCD) and randomized coordinate descent (RCD) which are deterministic and randomized versions of the CD methods. In light of the recent results in the literature, there is the common perception that RCD always dominates CCD in terms of performance. In this paper, we question this perception and provide examples and more generally problem classes for which CCD (or CD with any deterministic order) is faster than RCD in terms of asymptotic worst-case convergence. Furthermore, we provide lower and upper bounds on the amount of improvement on the rate of deterministic CD relative to RCD. The amount of improvement depend on the deterministic order used. We also provide a characterization of the best deterministic order (that leads to the maximum improvement in convergence rate) in terms of the combinatorial properties of the Hessian matrix of the objective function.
Linear Convergence of a Frank-Wolfe Type Algorithm over Trace-Norm Balls,We propose a rank-k variant of the classical Frank-Wolfe algorithm to solve convex minimization over a trace-norm ball. Our algorithm replaces the top singular-vector computation (1-SVD) of Frank-Wolfe with a top-k singular-vector computation (k-SVD), and this can be done by repeatedly applying 1-SVD k times. Our algorithm has a linear convergence rate when the objective function is smooth and strongly convex, and the optimal solution has rank at most k. This improves the convergence rate and the total complexity of the Frank-Wolfe method and its variants.
Adaptive Accelerated Gradient Converging Method under H\"{o}lderian Error Bound Condition,Recent studies have shown that proximal gradient (PG) method and accelerated gradient method (APG) with restarting can enjoy a linear convergence under a weaker condition than strong convexity, namely a quadratic growth condition (QGC). However, the faster convergence of restarting APG method relies on the potentially unknown constant  in QGC to appropriately restart APG, which restricts its applicability. We address this issue by developing a novel adaptive gradient converging methods, i.e., leveraging  the magnitude of proximal gradient as a criterion for restart and termination. Our analysis extends to a much more general condition beyond the QGC, namely the H\"{o}lderian error bound (HEB) condition.   {\it The key technique} for our development is a novel synthesis of  {\it adaptive regularization and a conditional restarting scheme}, which extends previous work focusing on strongly convex problems to a much broader family of problems. Furthermore, we demonstrate that our results have important implication and applications in machine learning: (i) if the objective function is coercive and semi-algebraic, PG's convergence speed is essentially $o(\frac{1}{t})$, where $t$ is the total number of iterations; (ii) if the objective function consists of an $\ell_1$, $\ell_\infty$, $\ell_{1,\infty}$, or huber  norm regularization and a convex smooth piecewise quadratic loss (e.g., square loss, squared hinge loss and huber loss), the proposed algorithm is parameter-free and enjoys a {\it faster linear convergence} than PG without any other assumptions  (e.g., restricted eigen-value condition).   It is notable that  our linear convergence results for the aforementioned problems  are global instead of local.  To the best of our knowledge, these improved results are first shown in this work.
Searching in the Dark: Practical SVRG Methods under Error Bound Conditions with  Guarantee,This paper develops practical stochastic variance reduced gradient (SVRG) methods under error bound conditions with theoretical guarantee. Error bound conditions, an inherent property of the optimization problem,  have recently revived in optimization for developing fast algorithms with improved global convergence without strong convexity. A particular condition of interest is the quadratic error bound (aka the second-order growth condition), which is weaker than strong convexity but can be leveraged for developing linear convergence for many gradient and proximal gradient methods. Several recent studies have also derived linear convergence  under the quadratic error bound condition of the stochastic variance reduced gradient method, itself an important milestone in stochastic optimization for solving machine learning problems. However, these studies have overlooked the critical issue of algorithmic dependence on an unknown parameter (analogous to the strong convexity modulus) in the error bound conditions, which is usually difficult to estimate and therefore makes the algorithm not practical for solving many interesting machine learning problems. To address this issue, we propose  novel techniques to automatically search for the unknown parameter on the fly of optimization, while maintaining almost the same convergence rate as an oracle setting assuming the involved parameter is given.
Geometric Descent Method for Convex Composite Minimization,In this paper, we extend the geometric descent method recently proposed by Bubeck, Lee and Singh to tackle nonsmooth and strongly convex composite problems. We prove that our proposed algorithm, dubbed geometric proximal gradient method (GeoPG), converges with a linear rate $(1-1/\sqrt{\kappa})$ and thus achieves the optimal rate among first-order methods, where $\kappa$ is the condition number of the problem. Numerical results on linear regression and logistic regression with elastic net regularization show that GeoPG compares favorably with Nesterov's accelerated proximal gradient method, especially when the problem is ill-conditioned.
Faster and Non-ergodic O(1/K) Stochastic Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers,We study stochastic convex optimization subjected to linear equality constraints. Traditional Stochastic Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers and its Nesterov's acceleration scheme can only achieve ergodic O(1/\sqrt{K}) convergence rates, where K is the number of iteration. By introducing Variance Reduction (VR) techniques, the convergence rates improve to ergodic O(1/K). In this paper, we propose a new stochastic ADMM which elaborately integrates Nesterov's extrapolation and VR techniques. With Nesterovs extrapolation, our algorithm can achieve a non-ergodic O(1/K) convergence rate which is optimal for separable linearly constrained non-smooth convex problems, while the convergence rates of VR based ADMM methods are actually tight O(1/\sqrt{K}) in non-ergodic sense. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that achieves a truly accelerated, stochastic convergence rate for constrained convex problems. The experimental results demonstrate that our algorithm is significantly faster than the existing state-of-the-art stochastic ADMM methods.
Doubly Accelerated Stochastic Variance Reduced Dual Averaging Method for Regularized Empirical Risk Minimization,We develop a new accelerated stochastic gradient method for efficiently solving the convex regularized empirical risk minimization problem in mini-batch settings. The use of mini-batches is becoming a golden standard in the machine learning community, because mini-batch settings stabilize the gradient estimate and can easily make good use of parallel computing. The core of our proposed method is the incorporation of our new ``double acceleration'' technique and variance reduction technique. We theoretically analyze our proposed method and show that our method much improves the mini-batch efficiencies of previous accelerated stochastic methods, and essentially only needs size $\sqrt{n}$ mini-batches for achieving the optimal iteration complexities for both non-strongly and strongly convex objectives, where $n$ is the training set size. Further, we show that even in non-mini-batch settings, our method surpasses the best known convergence rate for non-strongly convex objectives, and it achieves the one for strongly convex objectives.
Limitations on Variance-Reduction and Acceleration Schemes for Finite Sums Optimization,We study the conditions under which one is able to efficiently apply variance-reduction and acceleration schemes on finite sums  problems. First, we show that perhaps surprisingly, the finite sum structure, by itself, is not sufficient for obtaining a complexity bound of $\tilde{\cO}((n+L/\mu)\ln(1/\epsilon))$ for $L$-smooth and $\mu$-strongly convex finite sums - one must also know exactly which individual function is being referred to by the oracle at each iteration. Next, we show that for a broad class of first-order and coordinate-descent finite sums algorithms (including, e.g., SDCA, SVRG, SAG), it is not possible to get an `accelerated' complexity bound of $\tilde{\cO}((n+\sqrt{n L/\mu})\ln(1/\epsilon))$, unless the strong convexity parameter is given explicitly. Lastly, we show that when this class of algorithms is used for minimizing $L$-smooth and non-strongly convex finite sums, the optimal complexity bound is $\tilde{\cO}(n+L/\epsilon)$, assuming that (on average) the same update rule is used for any iteration, and $\tilde{\cO}(n+\sqrt{nL/\epsilon})$, otherwise.
Nonlinear Acceleration of Stochastic Algorithms,Extrapolation methods use the last few iterates of an optimization algorithm to produce a better estimate of the optimum. They were shown to achieve optimal convergence rates in a deterministic setting using simple gradient iterates. Here, we study extrapolation methods in a stochastic setting, where the iterates are produced by either a simple or an accelerated stochastic gradient algorithm. We first derive convergence bounds for arbitrary, potentially biased  perturbations, then produce asymptotic bounds using the ratio between the variance of the noise and the accuracy of the current point. Finally, we apply this acceleration technique to stochastic algorithms such as SGD, SAGA, SVRG and Katyusha in different settings, and show significant performance gains.
Acceleration and Averaging in Stochastic Descent Dynamics,We formulate and study a general family of (continuous-time) stochastic dynamics  for accelerated first-order minimization of smooth convex functions. Building on an averaging formulation of accelerated mirror descent, we propose a stochastic variant in which the gradient is contaminated by noise, and study the resulting stochastic differential equation. We prove a bound on the rate of change of an energy function associated to the problem, then use it to derive estimates of convergence rates of the function values, (a.s. and in expectation) both for persistent and asymptotically vanishing noise. We discuss the interaction between the parameters of the dynamics (learning rate and averaging weights) and the co-variation of the noise process, and show, in particular, how the asymptotic rate of co-variation affects the choice of parameters and, ultimately, the convergence rate.
Multiscale Semi-Markov Dynamics for Intracortical Brain-Computer Interfaces,Intracortical brain-computer interfaces allow people with tetraplegia to control a computer cursor by imagining the motion of paralyzed limbs. Standard decoders are derived from a Kalman filter that assumes Markov dynamics on the angle of intended movement, and a unimodal likelihood for each channel of neural activity. Due to errors made in the decoding of noisy neural data, as a user attempts to move the cursor to some goal, the angle between cursor and goal positions may change rapidly. We propose a dynamic Bayesian network that includes the on-screen goal position as part of its latent state, and thus allows motion cues to be aggregated over a much longer history of neural activity. Our multiscale model explicitly captures the relationship between instantaneous angles of motion and long-term goals, and incorporates semi-Markov dynamics for motion trajectories. We also propose a more flexible likelihood model for recordings of neural populations. In offline experiments with recorded neural data, we demonstrate significantly improved prediction of motion directions compared to Kalman filter baselines. We derive an efficient online inference algorithm, enabling a clinical trial participant with tetraplegia to control a computer cursor with their neural activity in real time.
EEG-GRAPH: A Factor Graph Based Model for Capturing Spatial, Temporal, and Observational Relationships in Electroencephalograms,This paper reports a factor graph based model for brain activity that jointly describes instantaneous observation-based, temporal, and spatial dependencies. Factor functions that represent the above dependencies are defined manually based on domain knowledge. This model is validated using clinically collected intracranial electroencephalogram (EEG) data from 29 epilepsy patients for the application of seizure onset localization. Results indicate that our model outperforms two conventional approaches which were devised using the observational dependency alone (5--7% better AUC: 0.72, 0.67, 0.65). Furthermore, we also show that manual definitions of the factor functions allow us to solve graph inference exactly using a graph cut algorithm. Experiments show that the proposed inference technique provides 3--10% gain in AUC (0.72, 0.62, 0.69) compared to sampling based alternatives.
Asynchronous Parallel Coordinate Minimization for MAP Inference,Finding the maximum a-posteriori (MAP) assignment is a central task in graphical models. Since modern applications give rise to very large problem instances, there is increasing need for efficient solvers. In this work we propose to improve the efficiency of coordinate-minimization-based dual-decomposition solvers by running their updates asynchronously in parallel. In this case message-passing inference is performed by multiple processing units simultaneously without coordination, all reading and writing to shared memory. We analyze the convergence properties of the resulting algorithms and identify settings where speedup gains can be expected. Our numerical evaluations show that this approach indeed achieves significant speedups in common computer vision tasks. 
Speeding Up Latent Variable Gaussian Graphical Model Estimation via Nonconvex Optimization,We study the estimation of the latent variable Gaussian graphical model (LVGGM), where the precision matrix is the superposition of a sparse matrix and a low-rank matrix.  In order to speed up the estimation of the sparse plus low-rank components, we propose a sparsity constrained maximum likelihood estimator based on matrix factorization and an efficient alternating gradient descent algorithm with hard thresholding to solve it. Our algorithm is orders of magnitude faster than the convex relaxation based methods for LVGGM. In addition, we prove that our algorithm is guaranteed to linearly converge to the unknown sparse and low-rank components up to the optimal statistical precision. Experiments on both synthetic and genomic data demonstrate the superiority of our algorithm over the state-of-the-art algorithms and corroborate our theory. 
The Expxorcist: Nonparametric Graphical Models Via Conditional Exponential Densities,Non-parametric multivariate density estimation faces strong statistical and computational bottlenecks, and the more practical approaches impose near-parametric assumptions on the form of the density functions. In this paper, we leverage recent developments to propose a class of non-parametric models which have very attractive computational and statistical properties. Our approach relies on the simple function space assumption that the conditional distribution of each variable conditioned on the other variables has a non-parametric exponential family form.
Reducing Reparameterization Gradient Variance,Optimization with noisy gradients has become ubiquitous in statistics and machine learning.   Reparameterization gradients, or gradient estimates computed via the "reparameterization trick," represent a class of noisy gradients often used in Monte Carlo variational inference (MCVI).  However, when these gradient estimators are too noisy, the optimization procedure can be slow or fail to converge.  One way to reduce noise is to use more samples for the gradient estimate, but this can be computationally expensive.  Instead, we view the noisy gradient as a random variable, and form an inexpensive approximation of the generating procedure for the gradient sample.  This approximation has high correlation with the noisy gradient by construction, making it a useful control variate for variance reduction.  We demonstrate our approach on non-conjugate multi-level hierarchical models and a Bayesian neural net where we observed gradient variance reductions of multiple orders of magnitude (20-2{,}000$\times$).
Robust Conditional Probabilities,Conditional probabilities are a core concept in machine learning. For example, optimal prediction of a label $Y$ given an input $X$ corresponds to maximizing the conditional probability of $Y$ given $X$. A common approach to inference tasks is learning a model of conditional probabilities. However, these models are often based on strong assumptions (e.g., log-linear models), and hence their estimate of conditional probabilities is not robust and is highly dependent on the validity of their assumptions.  Here we propose a framework for reasoning about conditional probabilities without assuming anything about the underlying distributions, except knowledge of their second order marginals, which can be estimated from data. We show how this setting leads to guaranteed bounds on conditional probabilities, which can be calculated efficiently in a variety of settings, including structured-prediction. Finally, we apply them to semi-supervised deep learning, obtaining results competitive with variational autoencoders.
Stein Variational Gradient Descent as Gradient Flow,Stein variational gradient descent (SVGD) is a deterministic sampling algorithm that iteratively transports a set of particles to approximate given distributions, based on an efficient gradient-based update that guarantees to optimally decrease the KL divergence within a function space. This paper develops the first theoretical analysis on SVGD. We establish that the empirical measures of the SVGD samples weakly converges to the target distribution, and show that the asymptotic behavior of SVGD is characterized by a nonlinear Fokker-Planck equation known as Vlasov equation in physics. We develop a geometric perspective that views SVGD as a gradient flow of the KL divergence functional under a new metric structure on the space of distributions induced by Stein operator.   
Parallel Streaming Wasserstein Barycenters,Efficiently aggregating data from different sources is a challenging problem, particularly when samples from each source are distributed differently. These differences can be inherent to the inference task or present for other reasons: sensors in a sensor network may be placed far apart, affecting their individual measurements. Conversely, it is computationally advantageous to split Bayesian inference tasks across subsets of data, but data need not be identically distributed across subsets. One principled way to fuse probability distributions is via the lens of optimal transport: the Wasserstein barycenter is a single distribution that summarizes a collection of input measures while respecting their geometry. However, computing the barycenter scales poorly and requires discretization of all input distributions and the barycenter itself. Improving on this situation, we present a scalable, communication-efficient, parallel algorithm for computing the Wasserstein barycenter of arbitrary distributions. Our algorithm can operate directly on continuous input distributions and is optimized for streaming data. Our method is even robust to nonstationary input distributions and produces a barycenter estimate that tracks the input measures over time. The algorithm is semi-discrete, needing to discretize only the barycenter estimate. To the best of our knowledge, we also provide the first bounds on the quality of the approximate barycenter as the discretization becomes finer. Finally, we demonstrate the practical effectiveness of our method, both in tracking moving distributions on a sphere, as well as in a large-scale Bayesian inference task.
AIDE: An algorithm for measuring the accuracy of probabilistic inference algorithms,Approximate probabilistic inference algorithms are central to many fields. Examples include sequential Monte Carlo inference in robotics, variational inference in machine learning, and Markov chain Monte Carlo inference in statistics. A key problem faced by practitioners is measuring the accuracy of an approximate inference algorithm on a specific dataset. Existing techniques for measuring inference accuracy are often brittle or specialized to one type of inference algorithm. This paper introduces the auxiliary inference divergence estimator (AIDE), an algorithm for measuring the accuracy of approximate inference algorithms. AIDE is based on the observation that inference algorithms can be treated as probabilistic models and the random variables used within the inference algorithm can be viewed as auxiliary variables. This view leads to a new estimator for the symmetric KL divergence between the output distributions of two inference algorithms. The paper illustrates application of AIDE to algorithms for inference in regression, hidden Markov, and Dirichlet process mixture models. The experiments show that AIDE captures the qualitative behavior of a broad class of inference algorithms and can detect failure modes of inference algorithms that are missed by standard heuristics.
Deep Dynamic Poisson Factorization Model,A new model, named as deep dynamic poisson factorization model, for analyzing sequential count vectors is proposed in this paper. The model based on the Poisson Factor Analysis method captures dependence among time steps by neural networks, representing the implicit distributions. Local complicated relationship is obtained from local implicit distribution, and deep latent structure is exploited to get the long-time dependence. Variational inference on latent variables and gradient descent based on the loss functions derived from variational distribution is performed in our inference. Synthetic dataset and real-world dataset are applied to the proposed model and our results show good predicting and fitting performance with interpretable latent structure.
On the Model Shrinkage Effect of Gamma Process Edge Partition Models,The edge partition model (EPM) is a fundamental Bayesian nonparametric model for extracting an overlapping structure from binary matrix. The EPM adopts a gamma process ($\Gamma$P) prior to automatically shrink the number of active atoms. However, we empirically found that the model shrinkage of the EPM does not typically work appropriately and leads to an overfitted solution. An analysis of the expectation of the EPM's intensity function suggested that the gamma priors for the EPM hyperparameters disturb the model shrinkage effect of the internal $\Gamma$P. In order to ensure that the model shrinkage effect of the EPM works in an appropriate manner, we proposed two novel generative constructions of the EPM: CEPM incorporating constrained gamma priors, and DEPM incorporating Dirichlet priors instead of the gamma priors. Furthermore, all DEPM's model parameters including the infinite atoms of the $\Gamma$P prior could be marginalized out, and thus it was possible to derive a truly infinite DEPM (IDEPM) that can be efficiently inferred using a collapsed Gibbs sampler. We experimentally confirmed that the model shrinkage of the proposed models works well and that the IDEPM indicated state-of-the-art performance in generalization ability, link prediction accuracy, mixing efficiency, and convergence speed.
Model evidence from nonequilibrium simulations,The marginal likelihood, or model evidence, is a key quantity in Bayesian parameter estimation and model comparison. For many probabilistic models, computation of the marginal likelihood is challenging, because it involves a sum or integral over an enormous parameter space. Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) is a powerful approach to compute marginal likelihoods. Various MCMC algorithms and evidence estimators have been proposed in the literature. Here we discuss the use of nonequilibrium techniques for estimating the marginal likelihood. Nonequilibrium estimators build on recent developments in statistical physics and are known as annealed importance sampling (AIS) and reverse AIS in probabilistic machine learning. We introduce new estimators for the model evidence that combine forward and backward simulations and show for various challenging models that the new evidence estimators outperform forward and reverse AIS. 
A-NICE-MC: Adversarial Training for MCMC,Existing Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC)  methods are either based on general-purpose and domain-agnostic schemes, which can lead to slow convergence, or require hand-crafting of problem-specific proposals by an expert. We propose A-NICE-MC, a novel method to train flexible parametric Markov chain kernels to produce samples with desired properties.   First, we propose an efficient likelihood-free adversarial training method to train a Markov chain and mimic a given data distribution. Then, we leverage flexible volume preserving flows to obtain parametric kernels for MCMC. Using a bootstrap approach, we show how to train efficient Markov Chains to sample from a prescribed posterior distribution by iteratively improving the quality of both the model and the samples. A-NICE-MC provides the first framework to automatically design efficient domain-specific MCMC proposals. Empirical results demonstrate that A-NICE-MC combines the strong guarantees of MCMC with the expressiveness of deep neural networks, and is able to significantly outperform competing methods such as Hamiltonian Monte Carlo.
Identification of Gaussian Process State Space Models,The Gaussian process state space model (GPSSM) is a non-linear dynamical system, where unknown transition and/or measurement mappings are described by GPs. Most research in GPSSMs has focussed on the state estimation problem. However, the key challenge in GPSSMs has not been satisfactorily addressed yet: system identification. To address this challenge, we impose a structured Gaussian  variational posterior distribution over the latent states, which is parameterised by a recognition model in the form of a bi-directional recurrent neural network. Inference with this structure allows us to recover a posterior smoothed over the entire sequence(s) of data. We provide a practical algorithm for efficiently computing a lower bound on the marginal likelihood using the reparameterisation trick.  This additionally allows arbitrary kernels to be used within the GPSSM. We demonstrate that we can efficiently generate plausible future trajectories  of the system we seek to model with the GPSSM, requiring only a small number of interactions with the true system.
Streaming Sparse Gaussian Process Approximations,Sparse approximations for Gaussian process models provide a suite of methods that enable these models to be deployed in large data regime and enable analytic intractabilities to be sidestepped. However, the field lacks a principled method to handle streaming data in which the posterior distribution over function values and the hyperparameters are updated in an online fashion. The small number of existing approaches either use suboptimal hand-crafted heuristics for hyperparameter learning, or suffer from catastrophic forgetting or slow updating when new data arrive. This paper develops a new principled framework for deploying Gaussian process probabilistic models in the streaming setting, providing principled methods for learning hyperparameters and optimising pseudo-input locations. The proposed framework is experimentally validated using synthetic and real-world datasets.
Bayesian Optimization with Gradients,Bayesian optimization has shown success in global optimization of expensive-to-evaluate multimodal objective functions. However, unlike most optimization methods, Bayesian optimization typically does not use derivative information. In this paper we show how Bayesian optimization can exploit derivative information to find good solutions with fewer objective function evaluations. In particular, we develop a novel Bayesian optimization algorithm, the derivative-enabled knowledge-gradient (dKG), which is one-step Bayes-optimal, asymptotically consistent, and provides greater one-step value of information than in the derivative-free setting. dKG accommodates noisy and incomplete derivative information, comes in both sequential and batch forms, and can optionally reduce the computational cost of inference through automatically selected retention of a single directional derivative. We also compute the dKG acquisition function and its gradient using a novel fast discretization-free technique. We show dKG provides state-of-the-art performance compared to a wide range of optimization procedures with and without gradients, on benchmarks including logistic regression, deep learning, kernel learning, and k-nearest neighbors.
Variational Inference for Gaussian Process Models with Linear Complexity,Large-scale Gaussian process inference has long faced practical challenges due to time and space complexity that is superlinear in dataset size. While sparse variational Gaussian process models are capable of learning from large-scale data, standard strategies for sparsifying the model can prevent the approximation of complex functions. In this work, we propose a novel variational Gaussian process model that decouples the representation of  mean and  covariance functions in reproducing kernel Hilbert space. We show that this new parametrization generalizes previous models and yields a variational inference problem that can be solved by stochastic gradient ascent with time and space complexity that is only linear in the number of mean function parameters. This strategy makes the adoption of large-scale expressive Gaussian process models possible. We run several experiments on regression tasks and show that this decoupled approach greatly outperforms previous sparse variational Gaussian process inference procedures.
Efficient Modeling of Latent Information in Supervised Learning using Gaussian Processes,Often in machine learning, data are collected as a combination of multiple conditions, e.g., the voice recordings of multiple persons, each labeled with an ID.  How could we build a model that captures the latent information related to these conditions and generalize to a new one with few data? We present a new model called Latent Variable Multiple Output Gaussian Processes (LVMOGP) and that allows to jointly model multiple conditions for regression and generalize to a new condition with a few data points at test time. LVMOGP infers the posteriors of Gaussian processes together with a latent space representing the information about different conditions. We derive an efficient variational inference method for LVMOGP, of which the computational complexity is as low as sparse Gaussian processes. We show that LVMOGP significantly outperforms related Gaussian process methods on various tasks with both synthetic and real data. 
Non-Stationary Spectral Kernels,We propose non-stationary spectral kernels for Gaussian process regression. We propose to model the spectral density of a non-stationary kernel function as a mixture of input-dependent Gaussian process frequency density surfaces. We solve the generalised Fourier transform with such a model, and present a family of non-stationary and non-monotonic kernels that can learn input-dependent and potentially long-range, non-monotonic covariances between inputs. We derive efficient inference using model whitening and marginalized posterior, and show with case studies that these kernels are necessary when modelling even rather simple time series, image or geospatial data with non-stationary characteristics.
Scalable Log Determinants for Gaussian Process Kernel Learning,For applications as varied as Bayesian neural networks, determinantal point processes, elliptical graphical models, and kernel learning for Gaussian processes (GPs), one must compute a log determinant of an n-by-n positive definite matrix, and its derivatives -- leading to prohibitive O(n^3) computations.  We propose novel O(n) approaches to estimating these quantities from only fast matrix vector multiplications (MVMs). These stochastic approximations are based on Chebyshev, Lanczos, and surrogate models, and converge quickly even for kernel matrices that have challenging spectra.  We leverage these approximations to develop a scalable Gaussian process approach to kernel learning. We find that Lanczos is generally superior to Chebyshev for kernel learning, and that a surrogate approach can be highly efficient and accurate with popular kernels. 
Spectral Mixture Kernels for Multi-Output Gaussian Processes,Initially, multiple-output Gaussian processes (MOGPs) models relied on linear transformations over independent latent single-output Gaussian processes (GPs), which resulted in cross-covariance functions with limited parametric interpretation, thus conflicting with single-output GPs and their intuitive understanding of lengthscales, frequencies and magnitudes to name but a few. On the contrary, current approaches to MOGP are able to better interpret the relationship between different channels by directly modelling the cross-covariances as a spectral mixture kernel with a phase shift. We propose a parametric family of complex-valued cross-spectral densities and then build on Cramer's Theorem, the multivariate version of Bochner's Theorem, to provide a principled approach to design multivariate covariance functions. The so-constructed kernels are able to model delays among channels in addition to phase differences and are thus more expressive than previous methods while also providing full parametric interpretation of the relationship across channels. The proposed method is validated on synthetic data and compared to existing MOGP methods on two real-world examples.  
Linearly constrained Gaussian processes,We consider a modification of the covariance function in Gaussian processes to correctly account for known linear constraints. By modelling the target function as a transformation of an underlying function, the constraints are explicitly incorporated in the model such that they are guaranteed to be fulfilled by any sample drawn or prediction made. We also propose a constructive procedure for designing the transformation operator and illustrate the result on both simulated and real-data examples.
Hindsight Experience Replay,Dealing with sparse rewards is one of the biggest challenges in Reinforcement Learning (RL). We present a novel technique called Hindsight Experience Replay which allows sample-efficient learning from rewards which are sparse and binary and therefore avoid the need for complicated reward engineering. It can be combined with an arbitrary off-policy RL algorithm and may be seen as a form of implicit curriculum. We demonstrate our approach on the task of manipulating objects with a robotic arm. In particular, we run experiments on three different tasks: pushing, sliding, and pick-and-place, in each case using only binary rewards indicating whether or not the task is completed. Our ablation studies show that Hindsight Experience Replay is a crucial ingredient which makes training possible in these challenging environments. We show that our policies trained on a physics simulation can be deployed on a physical robot and successfully complete the task. The video presenting our experiments is available at https://goo.gl/SMrQnI.
Log-normality and Skewness of Estimated State/Action Values in Reinforcement Learning,Under/overestimation of state/action values is harmful for reinforcement learning agents. In this paper, we show that a state/action value estimated using the Bellman equation can be decomposed to a weighted sum of path-wise values that follow log-normal distributions. Since log-normal distributions are skewed, the distribution of estimated values can also be skewed, leading to an imbalanced likelihood of under/overestimation. The degree of such imbalance can vary greatly among actions and policies within one problem instance, making the agent prone to select actions/policies that have inferior expected return and higher likelihood of overestimation. We present a comprehensive analysis to such skewness, examine its factors and impacts through both theoretical and empirical results, and discuss the possible ways to reduce the undesirable effect of such skewness.
Finite sample analysis of the GTD Policy Evaluation Algorithms in Markov Setting,In reinforcement learning (RL), the key component is policy evaluation, which aims to estimate the value function (i.e., expected long-term accumulated reward starting from a state) of a given policy. With a good policy evaluation method, the RL algorithms can estimate the value functions of the given policy more accurately and find a better policy. When the state space is large or continuous, \emph{Gradient-based Temporal Difference(GTD)} algorithms with linear function approximation to the value function are widely used. Considering that the collection of the evaluation data is very likely to be both time and reward consuming, to get a clear understanding of the finite sample performance of the GTD algorithms is very important to the efficiency of policy evaluation and the entire RL algorithms. Previous work converted GTD algorithms into a convex-concave saddle point problem and provided the finite sample analysis of the GTD algorithms with constant step size under the assumption that data are i.i.d. generated. However, as we know, in RL problems, the data are generated from Markov processes rather than i.i.d. and step size is set in different ways. In this paper, under the realistic Markov setting, we derive finite sample bounds both in expectation and with high probability for the general convex-concave saddle point problem, and hence for the GTD algorithms. Our bounds show that, in the Markov  setting, (1) with variants of step size, GTD algorithms converge; (2) the convergence rate is determined by the step size, and related to the mixing time of the Markov process; (3) we explain that the experience reply trick is effective, since it can improve the mixing property of the Markov process.  To the best of our knowledge, our analysis is the first to provide finite sample bounds for the GTD algorithms in Markov setting. 
Inverse Filtering for Hidden Markov Models,This paper considers three related inverse filtering problems for hidden Markov models (HMMs). Given a sequence of state posteriors and the system dynamics; i) estimate the corresponding sequence of observations, ii) estimate the observation likelihoods, iii) jointly estimate the observation likelihoods and the observation sequence. The problems are motivated by challenges in reverse engineering of sensors, including calibration and diagnostics. We show how to avoid a computationally expensive mixed integer linear program (MILP) by exploiting the structure of the HMM filter. We provide conditions for when the quantities can be uniquely recovered. Finally, we also consider the case where the posteriors are corrupted by noise. It is shown that this problem can be naturally posed as a clustering problem. The proposed algorithm is evaluated on real-world polysomnographic data used for automatic sleep-staging.
Safe Model-based Reinforcement Learning with Stability Guarantees,Reinforcement learning is a powerful paradigm for learning optimal policies from experimental data. However, to find optimal policies, most reinforcement learning algorithms explore all possible actions, which may be harmful for real-world systems. As a consequence, learning algorithms are rarely applied on safety-critical systems in the real world. In this paper, we present a learning algorithm that explicitly considers safety in terms of stability guarantees. Specifically, we extend control theoretic results on Lyapunov stability verification and show how to use statistical models of the dynamics to obtain high-performance control policies with provable stability certificates. Moreover, under additional regularity assumptions in terms of a Gaussian process prior, we prove that one can effectively and safely collect data in order to learn about the dynamics and thus both improve control performance and expand the safe region of the state space. In our experiments, we show how the resulting algorithm can safely optimize a neural network policy on a simulated inverted pendulum, without the pendulum ever falling down.
Data-Efficient Reinforcement Learning in Continuous State-Action Gaussian-POMDPs,We present a data-efficient reinforcement learning method for continuous state-action systems under significant observation noise. Data-efficient solutions under small noise exist, such as PILCO which learns the cartpole swing-up task in 30s. PILCO evaluates policies by planning state-trajectories using a dynamics model. However, PILCO applies policies to the observed state, therefore planning in observation-space. We extend PILCO with filtering to instead plan in belief -space, consistent partially observable Markov decisions process (POMDP) planning. This enables data-efficient learning under significant observation noise, outperforming more naive methods such as post-hoc application of a filter to policies optimised by the original (unfiltered) PILCO algorithm. We test our method on the cartpole swing-up task, which involves nonlinear dynamics and requires nonlinear control.
Linear regression without correspondence,This article considers algorithmic and statistical aspects of linear regression when the correspondence between the covariates and the responses is unknown. First, a fully polynomial-time approximation scheme is given for the natural least squares optimization problem in any constant dimension. Next, in an average-case and noise-free setting where the responses exactly correspond to a linear function of i.i.d.~draws from a standard multivariate normal distribution, an efficient algorithm based on lattice basis reduction is shown to exactly recover the unknown linear function in arbitrary dimension. Finally, lower bounds on the signal-to-noise ratio are established for approximate recovery of the unknown linear function.
On the Complexity of Learning Neural Networks,The stunning empirical successes of neural networks currently lack rigorous theoretical eplanation. What form would such an explanation take, in the face of existing complexity-theoretic lower bounds? A first step might be to show that data generated by neural networks a single hidden layer, smooth activation functions and benign input distributions can be learned efficiently. We demonstrate here a comprehensive lower bound ruling out this possibility: for a wide class of activation functions (including all currently used), and inputs drawn from any logconcave distribution, there is a family of one-hidden-layer functions whose output is a sum gate that are hard to learn in a precise sense: any statistical query algorithm (which includes all known variants of stochastic gradient descent with any loss function) needs an exponential number of queries even using tolerance inversely proportional to the input dimensionality. Moreover, this hard family of functions is realizable with a small (sublinear in dimension) number of activation units in the single hidden layer. The lower bound is also robust to small perturbations of the true weights. Systematic experiments illustrate a phase transition in the training error as predicted by the analysis.
Near Optimal Sketching of Low-Rank Tensor Regression,We study the least squares regression problem $\min_{\Theta \in \RR^{p_1 \times \cdots \times p_D}} \| \cA(\Theta) -  b \|_2^2$, where $\Theta$ is a low-rank tensor, defined as $\Theta = \sum_{r=1}^{R} \theta_1^{(r)} \circ \cdots \circ \theta_D^{(r)}$, for vectors $\theta_d^{(r)} \in \mathbb{R}^{p_d}$ for all $r \in [R]$ and $d \in [D]$.    %$R$ is small compared with $p_1,\ldots,p_D$,   Here, $\circ$ denotes the outer product of vectors, and $\cA(\Theta)$ is a linear function on $\Theta$. This problem is motivated by the fact that the number of parameters in $\Theta$ is only $R \cdot \sum_{d=1}^D p_D$, which is significantly smaller than the $\prod_{d=1}^{D} p_d$ number of parameters in ordinary least squares regression. We consider the above CP decomposition model of tensors $\Theta$, as well as the Tucker decomposition. For both models we show how to apply data dimensionality reduction techniques based on {\it sparse} random projections $\Phi \in \RR^{m \times n}$, with $m \ll n$, to reduce the problem to a much smaller problem $\min_{\Theta} \|\Phi \cA(\Theta) - \Phi b\|_2^2$, for which $\|\Phi \cA(\Theta) - \Phi b\|_2^2 = (1 \pm \varepsilon) \| \cA(\Theta) -  b \|_2^2$ holds simultaneously for all $\Theta$. We obtain a significantly smaller dimension and sparsity in the randomized linear mapping $\Phi$ than is possible for ordinary least squares regression. Finally, we give a number of numerical simulations supporting our theory. 
Is Input Sparsity Time Possible for Kernel Low-Rank Approximation?,Low-rank approximation is a common tool used to accelerate kernel methods: the $n \times n$ kernel matrix $K$ is approximated via a rank-$k$ matrix $\tilde K$ which can be stored in much less space and processed more quickly. In this work we study the limits of computationally efficient low-rank kernel approximation. We show that for a broad class of kernels, including the popular Gaussian and polynomial kernels, computing a relative error $k$-rank approximation to $K$ is at least as difficult as multiplying the input data matrix $A \in R^{n \times d}$ by an arbitrary matrix $C \in R^{d \times k}$. Barring a breakthrough in fast matrix multiplication, when $k$ is not too large, this requires $\Omega(nnz(A)k)$ time where $nnz(A)$ is the number of non-zeros in $A$. This lower bound matches, in many parameter regimes, recent work on subquadratic time algorithms for low-rank approximation of general kernels [MM16,MM17], demonstrating that these algorithms are unlikely to be significantly improved, in particular to $O(nnz(A))$ input sparsity runtimes. At the same time there is hope: we show for the first time that $O(nnz(A))$ time approximation is possible for general radial basis function kernels (e.g. the Gaussian kernel) for the closely related problem of low-rank approximation of the kernelized dataset.
Higher-Order Total Variation Classes on Grids: Minimax Theory and Trend Filtering Methods,We consider the problem of estimating the values of a function over  $n$ nodes of a $d$-dimensional grid graph (having equal side lengths  \smash{$n^{1/d}$}) from noisy observations. The function is assumed to be smooth, but is allowed to exhibit different amounts of smoothness at different regions in the grid.  Such heterogeneity eludes classical measures of smoothness from nonparametric statistics, such as Holder smoothness. Meanwhile, total variation (TV) smoothness classes allow for heterogeneity, but are restrictive in another sense: only constant functions are counted as perfectly smooth (achieve zero TV). To move past this, we consider two higher-order TV classes, based on two ways of compiling the discrete derivatives of a parameter across the nodes.  We relate these classes to Holder classes, derive minimax error rates for the higher-order TV classes, and analyze two naturally associated trend filtering methods, each of which is seen to be optimal over the appropriate class.
Alternating Estimation for Structured High-Dimensional Multi-Response Models,We consider the problem of learning high-dimensional multi-response linear models with structured parameters. By exploiting the noise correlations among different responses, we propose an alternating estimation (AltEst) procedure to estimate the model parameters based on the generalized Dantzig selector (GDS). Under suitable sample size and resampling assumptions, we show that the error of the estimates generated by AltEst, with high probability, converges linearly to certain minimum achievable level, which can be tersely expressed by a few geometric measures, such as Gaussian width of sets related to the parameter structure. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first non-asymptotic statistical guarantee for such AltEst-type algorithm applied to estimation with general structures.
Compressing the Gram Matrix for Learning Neural Networks in Polynomial Time,We consider the problem of learning function classes computed by   neural networks with various activations (e.g. ReLU or Sigmoid), a   task believed to be intractable in the worst-case.   A major open problem is to understand the minimal assumptions under   which these classes admit efficient algorithms. In this work we show   that a natural distributional assumption on     eigenvalue decay of the Gram matrix yields polynomial-time   algorithms in the non-realizable setting for expressive classes of   networks (e.g. feed-forward networks of ReLUs).  We make no other   assumptions on the network architecture or the labels.  Given   sufficiently-strong polynomial eigenvalue decay, we obtain     fully-polynomial time algorithms in all the   parameters with respect to square-loss. Milder decay    also leads to improved algorithms.  We are not aware of any   prior work where an assumption on the marginal distribution alone   leads to polynomial-time algorithms for networks of ReLUs, even with   one hidden layer. Unlike prior assumptions   (e.g., the marginal distribution is Gaussian), eigenvalue decay has   been observed in practice on common data sets.    Our algorithm applies to any function class that can be embedded   in a suitable RKHS.  The main   technical contribution is a new approach for proving generalization   bounds for kernelized regression using Compression Schemes   as opposed to Rademacher bounds.  In   general, it is known that sample-complexity bounds for kernel   methods must depend on the norm of the corresponding RKHS, which can   quickly become large depending on the kernel function employed.  We   sidestep these worst-case bounds by sparsifying the Gram   matrix using recent work on recursive Nystrom sampling due to Musco   and Musco.  We prove that our approximate, sparse hypothesis admits a compression scheme whose true error depends on the rate of   eigenvalue decay.
Learning with Average Top-k Loss,In this work, we introduce the average top-$k$ (\atk) loss as a new ensemble loss for supervised learning. The \atk loss provides a natural generalization of the two widely used ensemble losses, namely the average loss and the maximum loss. Furthermore, the \atk loss combines the advantages of them and can alleviate their corresponding drawbacks to better adapt to different data distributions. We show that the \atk loss affords an intuitive interpretation that reduces the penalty of continuous and convex individual losses on correctly classified data. The \atk loss can lead to convex optimization problems that can be solved effectively with conventional sub-gradient based method. We further study the Statistical Learning Theory of \matk by establishing its classification calibration and statistical consistency of \matk which provide useful insights on the practical choice of the  parameter $k$. We demonstrate the applicability of \matk learning combined with different individual loss functions for binary and multi-class classification and regression using synthetic and real datasets. 
Hierarchical Clustering Beyond the Worst-Case,Hiererachical clustering, that is computing a recursive partitioning of a dataset to obtain clusters at increasingly finer granularity is a fundamental problem in data analysis. Although hierarchical clustering has mostly been studied through procedures such as linkage algorithms, or top-down heuristics, rather than as optimization problems, recently Dasgupta [1] proposed an objective function for hierarchical clustering and initiated a line of work developing algorithms that explicitly optimize an objective (see also [2, 3, 4]). In this paper, we consider a fairly general random graph model for hierarchical clustering, called the hierarchical stochastic blockmodel (HSBM), and show that in certain regimes the SVD approach of McSherry [5] combined with specific linkage methods results in a clustering that give an O(1)-approximation to Dasguptas cost function. We also show that an approach based on SDP relaxations for balanced cuts based on the work of Makarychev et al. [6], combined with the recursive sparsest cut algorithm of Dasgupta, yields an O(1) approximation in slightly larger regimes and also in the semi-random setting, where an adversary may remove edges from the random graph generated according to an HSBM. Finally, we report empirical evaluation on synthetic and real-world  data showing that our proposed SVD-based method does indeed achieve a better cost than other widely-used heurstics and also results in a better classification accuracy when the underlying problem was that of multi-class classification.
Net-Trim: Convex Pruning of Deep Neural Networks with Performance Guarantee,We introduce and analyze a new technique for model reduction for deep neural networks. While large networks are theoretically capable of learning arbitrarily complex models, overfitting and model redundancy negatively affects the prediction accuracy and model variance.  Our Net-Trim algorithm prunes (sparsifies) a trained network layer-wise, removing connections at each layer by solving a convex optimization program.  This program seeks a sparse set of weights at each layer that keeps the layer inputs and outputs consistent with the originally trained model.  The algorithms and associated analysis are applicable to neural networks operating with the rectified linear unit (ReLU) as the nonlinear activation. We present both parallel and cascade versions of the algorithm.  While the latter can achieve slightly simpler models with the same generalization performance, the former can be computed in a distributed manner.  In both cases, Net-Trim significantly reduces the number of connections in the network, while also providing enough regularization to slightly reduce the generalization error. We also provide a mathematical analysis of the consistency between the initial network and the retrained model.  To analyze the model sample complexity, we derive the general sufficient conditions for the recovery of a sparse transform matrix. For a single layer taking independent Gaussian random vectors as inputs,  we show that if the network response can be described using a maximum number of $s$ non-zero weights per node, these weights can be learned from $O(s\log N)$ samples. 
A graph-theoretic approach to multitasking, A key feature of neural network architectures is their ability to support the simultaneous interaction among large numbers of units in the learning and processing of representations. However, how the richness of such interactions trades off against the ability of a network to simultaneously carry out multiple independent processes -- a salient limitation in many domains of human cognition -- remains largely unexplored. In this paper we use a graph-theoretic analysis of network architecture to address this question, where tasks are represented as edges in a bipartite graph $G=(A \cup B, E)$. We define a new measure of multitasking capacity of such networks, based on the assumptions that tasks that \emph{need} to be multitasked rely on independent resources, i.e., form a matching, and that tasks \emph{can} be performed without interference if they form an induced matching. Our main result is an inherent tradeoff between the multitasking capacity and the average degree of the network that holds \emph{regardless of the network architecture}. These results are also extended to networks of depth greater than $2$. On the positive side, we demonstrate that networks that are random-like (e.g., locally sparse) can have desirable multitasking properties. Our results shed light into the parallel-processing limitations of neural systems and provide insights that may be useful for the analysis and design of parallel architectures.
Information-theoretic analysis of generalization capability of learning algorithms,We derive upper bounds on the generalization error of a learning algorithm in terms of the mutual information between its input and output. The upper bounds provide theoretical guidelines for striking the right balance between data fit and generalization by controlling the input-output mutual information of a learning algorithm.   The results can also be used to analyze the generalization capability of learning algorithms under adaptive composition, and the bias-accuracy tradeoffs in adaptive data analytics. Our work extends and leads to nontrivial improvements on the recent results of Russo and Zou.
Independence clustering (without a matrix),The  independence clustering problem is considered in the following formulation: given a set $S$ of random variables,  it is required to find the finest partitioning $\{U_1,\dots,U_k\}$ of  $S$ into clusters  such that the clusters $U_1,\dots,U_k$ are mutually independent. Since mutual independence is the target, pairwise similarity measurements are of no use, and thus traditional clustering algorithms are inapplicable.   The distribution of the random variables in $S$ is, in general, unknown, but a sample  is available.  Thus, the problem is cast in terms of time series.  Two forms of sampling are considered: i.i.d.\ and stationary  time series, with the main emphasis being on the latter, more general, case. A consistent, computationally tractable algorithm for each of the settings is proposed, and a number of fascinating open directions for further research are outlined. 
Polynomial Codes: an Optimal Design for High-Dimensional Coded Matrix Multiplication,We consider a large-scale matrix multiplication problem where the computation is carried out using a distributed system with a master node and multiple worker nodes, where each worker can store parts of the input matrices. We propose a computation strategy that leverages ideas from coding theory to design intermediate computations at the worker nodes, in order to efficiently deal with straggling workers. The proposed strategy, named as \emph{polynomial codes}, achieves the optimum recovery threshold, defined as the minimum number of workers that the master needs to wait for in order to compute the output. Furthermore, by leveraging the algebraic structure of polynomial codes, we can map the reconstruction problem of the final output to a polynomial interpolation problem, which can be solved efficiently. Polynomial codes provide order-wise improvement over the state of the art in terms of recovery threshold, and are also optimal in terms of several other metrics. Furthermore, we extend this code to distributed convolution and show its order-wise optimality.
Estimating Mutual Information for Discrete-Continuous Mixtures,Estimation of mutual information from observed samples is a basic primitive in machine learning, useful in several learning tasks including correlation mining, information bottleneck, Chow-Liu tree, and conditional independence testing in (causal) graphical models. While mutual information is a quantity well-defined for general probability spaces, estimators have been developed only in the special case of discrete or continuous pairs of random variables. Most of these estimators operate using the 3H -principle, i.e., by calculating the three (differential) entropies of X, Y and the pair (X,Y). However, in general mixture spaces, such individual entropies  are not well defined, even though mutual information is.  In this paper, we develop a novel estimator for estimating mutual information in discrete-continuous mixtures. We prove the consistency of this estimator theoretically as well as demonstrate its excellent empirical performance. This problem is relevant in a wide-array of applications, where some variables are discrete, some continuous, and others are a mixture between continuous and discrete components.
Best Response Regression,In a regression task, a predictor is given a set of instances, along with a real value for each point. Subsequently, she has to identify the value of a new instance as accurately as possible. In this work, we initiate the study of strategic predictions in machine learning.  We consider a regression task tackled by two players, where the payoff of each player is the proportion of the points she predicts more accurately than the other player. We first revise the probably approximately correct learning framework to deal with the case of a duel between two predictors.  We then devise an algorithm which finds a linear regression predictor that is a best response to any (not necessarily linear) regression algorithm. We show that it has linearithmic sample complexity, and polynomial time complexity when the dimension of the instances domain is fixed. We also test our approach in a high-dimensional setting, and show it significantly defeats classical regression algorithms in the prediction duel. Together, our work introduces a novel machine learning task that lends itself well to current competitive online settings, provides its theoretical foundations, and illustrates its applicability. 
Statistical Cost Sharing,We study the cost sharing problem for cooperative games in situations where the cost function $C$ is not available via oracle queries, but must instead be learned from samples drawn from a distribution, represented as tuples $(S, C(S))$, for different subsets $S$ of players. We formalize this approach, which we call {\em statistical cost sharing}, and consider the computation of the core and the Shapley value.  Expanding on the work by Balcan et al 2015, we give precise sample complexity bounds for computing cost shares that satisfy the core property with high probability for any function with a non-empty core. For the Shapley value, which has never been studied in this setting, we show that for submodular cost functions with curvature bounded curvature $\kappa$ it can be approximated from samples from the uniform distribution to a $\sqrt{1 - \kappa}$ factor, and that the bound is tight. We then define statistical analogues of the Shapley axioms, and derive a notion of statistical Shapley value and that these can  be approximated arbitrarily well from samples from any distribution and for any function.
A Sample Complexity Measure with Applications to Learning Optimal Auctions,We introduce a new sample complexity measure, which we refer to as split-sample growth rate. For any hypothesis $H$ and for any sample $S$ of size $m$, the split-sample growth rate $\hat{\tau}_H(m)$ counts how many different hypotheses can empirical risk minimization output on any sub-sample of $S$ of size $m/2$. We show that the expected generalization error is upper bounded by $O\left(\sqrt{\frac{\log(\hat{\tau}_H(2m))}{m}}\right)$. Our result is enabled by a strengthening of the Rademacher complexity analysis of the expected generalization error. We show that this sample complexity measure, greatly simplifies the analysis of the sample complexity of optimal auction design, for many auction classes studied in the literature. Their sample complexity can be derived solely by noticing that in these auction classes, ERM on any sample or sub-sample will pick parameters that are equal to one of the points in the sample.
Multiplicative Weights Update with Constant Step-Size in Congestion Games:  Convergence, Limit Cycles and Chaos,The Multiplicative Weights Update (MWU) method is a ubiquitous meta-algorithm that works as follows: A distribution is maintained on a certain set, and at each step the probability assigned to action $\gamma$ is multiplied by $(1 -\epsilon C(\gamma))>0$ where $C(\gamma)$ is the ``cost" of action $\gamma$ and then rescaled to ensure that the new values form a distribution.  We analyze MWU in congestion games where agents use \textit{arbitrary admissible constants} as learning rates $\epsilon$ and prove convergence to \textit{exact Nash equilibria}. Interestingly, this convergence result does not carry over to the nearly homologous MWU variant where at each step the probability assigned to action $\gamma$ is multiplied by $(1 -\epsilon)^{C(\gamma)}$ even for the most innocuous case of two-agent, two-strategy load balancing games, where such dynamics can provably lead to limit cycles or even chaotic behavior.
Efficiency Guarantees from Data,Analysis of efficiency of outcomes in game theoretic settings has been a main item of study at the intersection of economics and computer science. The notion of the price of anarchy takes a worst-case stance to efficiency analysis, considering instance independent guarantees of efficiency. We propose a data-dependent analog of the price of anarchy that refines this worst-case assuming access to samples of strategic behavior. We focus on auction settings, where the latter is non-trivial due to the private information held by participants. Our approach to bounding the efficiency from data is robust to statistical errors and mis-specification. Unlike traditional econometrics, which seek to learn the private information of players from observed behavior and then analyze properties of the outcome, we directly quantify the inefficiency without going through the private information. We apply our approach to datasets from a sponsored search auction system and find empirical results that are a significant improvement over bounds from worst-case analysis.
Safe and Nested Subgame Solving for Imperfect-Information Games,Unlike perfect-information games, imperfect-information games cannot be solved by decomposing the game into subgames that are solved independently. Thus more computationally intensive equilibrium-finding techniques are used, and all decisions must consider the strategy of the game as a whole. While it is not possible to solve an imperfect-information game exactly through decomposition, it is possible to approximate solutions, or improve existing solutions, by solving disjoint subgames. This process is referred to as subgame solving. We introduce subgame solving techniques that outperform prior methods both in theory and practice. We also show how to adapt them, and past subgame-solving techniques, to respond to opponent actions that are outside the original action abstraction; this significantly outperforms the prior state-of-the-art approach, action translation. Finally, we show that subgame solving can be repeated as the game progresses down the tree, leading to significantly lower exploitability. We applied these techniques to develop the first AI to defeat top humans in heads-up no-limit Texas hold'em poker.
Deep Reinforcement Learning from Human Preferences,For sophisticated reinforcement learning (RL) systems to interact usefully with real-world environments, we need to communicate complex goals to these systems. In this work, we explore goals defined in terms of (non-expert) human preferences between pairs of trajectory segments. Our approach separates learning the goal from learning the behavior to achieve it. We show that this approach can effectively solve complex RL tasks without access to the reward function, including Atari games and simulated robot locomotion, while providing feedback on about 0.1% of our agent's interactions with the environment. This reduces the cost of human oversight far enough that it can be practically applied to state-of-the-art RL systems. To demonstrate the flexibility of our approach, we show that we can successfully train complex novel behaviors with about an hour of human time. These behaviors and environments are considerably more complex than any which have been previously learned from human feedback.
Multi-Modal Imitation Learning from Unstructured Demonstrations using Generative Adversarial Nets,Imitation learning has traditionally been applied to learn a single task from demonstrations thereof. The requirement of structured and isolated demonstrations limits the scalability of imitation learning approaches as they are difficult to apply to real-world scenarios, where robots have to be able to execute a multitude of tasks. In this paper, we propose a multi-modal imitation learning framework that is able to segment and imitate skills from unlabelled and unstructured demonstrations by learning skill segmentation and imitation learning jointly. The extensive simulation results indicate that our method can efficiently separate the demonstrations into individual skills and learn to imitate them using a single multi-modal policy.
EX2: Exploration with Exemplar Models for Deep Reinforcement Learning,Deep reinforcement learning algorithms have been shown to learn complex tasks using highly general policy classes. However, sparse reward problems remain a significant challenge. Exploration methods based on novelty detection have been particularly successful in such settings but typically require generative or predictive models of the observations, which can be difficult to train when the observations are very high-dimensional and complex, as in the case of raw images. We propose a novelty detection algorithm for exploration that is based entirely on discriminatively trained exemplar models, where classifiers are trained to discriminate each visited state against all others. Intuitively, novel states are easier to distinguish against other states seen during training. We show that this kind of discriminative modeling corresponds to implicit density estimation, and that it can be combined with count-based exploration to produce competitive results on a range of popular benchmark tasks, including state-of-the-art results on challenging egocentric observations in the vizDoom benchmark. 
#Exploration: A Study of Count-Based Exploration for Deep Reinforcement Learning,Count-based exploration algorithms are known to perform near-optimally when used in conjunction with tabular reinforcement learning (RL) methods for solving small discrete Markov decision processes (MDPs). It is generally thought that count-based methods cannot be applied in high-dimensional state spaces, since most states will only occur once. Recent deep RL exploration strategies are able to deal with high-dimensional continuous state spaces through complex heuristics, often relying on optimism in the face of uncertainty or intrinsic motivation. In this work, we describe a surprising finding: a simple generalization of the classic count-based approach can reach near state-of-the-art performance on various high-dimensional and/or continuous deep RL benchmarks. States are mapped to hash codes, which allows to count their occurrences with a hash table. These counts are then used to compute a reward bonus according to the classic count-based exploration theory. We find that simple hash functions can achieve surprisingly good results on many challenging tasks. Furthermore, we show that a domain-dependent learned hash code may further improve these results. Detailed analysis reveals important aspects of a good hash function: 1) having appropriate granularity and 2) encoding information relevant to solving the MDP. This exploration strategy achieves near state-of-the-art performance on both continuous control tasks and Atari 2600 games, hence providing a simple yet powerful baseline for solving MDPs that require considerable exploration.
Thinking Fast and Slow with Deep Learning and Tree Search,Solving sequential decision making problems, such as text parsing, robotic control, and game playing, requires a combination of planning policies and generalisation of those plans. In this paper, we present Expert Iteration, a novel algorithm which decomposes the problem into separate planning and generalisation tasks. Planning new policies is performed by tree search, while a deep neural network generalises those plans. In contrast, standard Deep Reinforcement Learning algorithms rely on a neural network not only to generalise plans, but to discover them too. We show that our method substantially outperforms Policy Gradients in the board game Hex, winning 74.7% of games against it when trained for equal time.
 Natural value approximators: learning when to trust past estimates,Neural networks have a smooth initial inductive bias, such that small changes in input do not lead to large changes in output. However, in reinforcement learning domains with sparse rewards, value functions have non-smooth structure with a characteristic asymmetric discontinuity whenever rewards arrive. We propose a mechanism that learns an interpolation between a direct value estimate and a projected value estimate computed from the encountered reward and the previous estimate. This reduces the need to learn about discontinuities, and thus improves the value function approximation. Furthermore, as the interpolation is learned and state-dependent, our method can deal with heterogeneous observability. We demonstrate that this one change leads to significant improvements on multiple Atari games, when applied to the state-of-the-art A3C algorithm.
Active Exploration for Learning Symbolic Representations,We introduce an online active exploration algorithm for data-efficiently learning an abstract symbolic model of an environment. Our algorithm is divided into two parts: the first part quickly generates an intermediate Bayesian symbolic model from the data that the agent has collected so far, which the agent can then use along with the second part to guide its future exploration towards regions of the state space that the model is uncertain about. We show that our algorithm outperforms random and greedy exploration policies on two different computer game domains. The first domain is an Asteroids-inspired game with complex dynamics, but basic logical structure. The second is the Treasure Game, with simpler dynamics, but more complex logical structure.
State Aware Imitation Learning,Imitation learning is the study of learning how to act given a set of demonstrations provided by a human expert. It is intuitively apparent that learning to take optimal actions is a simpler undertaking in situations that are similar to the ones shown by the teacher. However, imitation learning approaches do not tend to use this insight directly. In this paper, we introduce State Aware Imitation Learning (SAIL), an imitation learning algorithm that allows an agent to learn how to remain in states where it can confidently take the correct action and how to recover if it is lead astray. Key to this algorithm is a gradient learned using a temporal difference update rule which leads the agent to prefer states similar to the demonstrated states. We show that estimating a linear approximation of this gradient yields similar theoretical guarantees to online temporal difference learning approaches and empirically show that SAIL can effectively be used for imitation learning in continuous domains with non-linear function approximators used for both the policy representation and the gradient estimate. 
Successor Features for Transfer in Reinforcement Learning,Transfer in reinforcement learning refers to the notion that generalization should occur not only within a task but also across tasks. We propose a transfer framework for the scenario where the reward function changes from one task to the other but the environment's dynamics remain the same. Our approach rests on two key ideas: "successor features", a value function representation that decouples the dynamics of the environment from the rewards, and "generalized policy improvement", a generalization of dynamic programming's policy improvement step that considers a set of policies rather than a single one. Put together, the two ideas lead to  an approach that integrates seamlessly within the reinforcement learning framework and allows the free exchange of information between tasks. The proposed method also provides performance guarantees for the transferred policy even before any learning has taken place. We derive two theorems that set our approach in firm theoretical ground and present experiments that show that it successfully promotes transfer in practice, significantly outperforming alternative methods in a sequence of navigation tasks and in the control of a simulated two-joint robotic arm.
Bridging the Gap Between Value and Policy Based Reinforcement Learning,We establish a new connection between value and policy based reinforcement learning (RL) based on a relationship between softmax temporal value consistency and policy optimality under entropy regularization. Specifically, we show that softmax consistent action values satisfy a strong consistency property with optimal entropy regularized policy probabilities along any action sequence, regardless of provenance. From this observation, we develop a new RL algorithm, Path Consistency Learning (PCL), that minimizes inconsistency measured along multi-step action sequences extracted from both on- and off-policy traces. We subsequently deepen the relationship by showing how a single model can be used to represent both a policy and its softmax action values. Beyond eliminating the need for a separate critic, the unification demonstrates how policy gradients can be stabilized via self-bootstrapping from both on- and off-policy data. An experimental evaluation demonstrates that both algorithms can significantly outperform strong actor-critic and Q-learning baselines across several benchmark tasks.
Using Options and Covariance Testing for Long Horizon Off-Policy Policy Evaluation,Evaluating a policy by deploying it in the real world can be risky and costly.  Off-policy policy evaluation (OPE) algorithms use historical data collected from running a previous policy to evaluate a new policy, which provides a means for evaluating a policy without requiring it to ever be deployed.  Importance sampling is a popular OPE method because it is robust to partial observability and works with continuous states and actions.  However, the amount of historical data required by importance sampling can scale exponentially with the horizon of the problem: the number of sequential decisions that are made.  We propose using policies over temporally extended actions, called options, and show that combining these policies with importance sampling can significantly improve performance for long-horizon problems. In addition, we can take advantage of special cases that arise due to options-based policies to furthermore improve performance of importance sampling.  We further generalize these special cases to a general covariance testing rule that can be used to decide which weights to drop in an IS estimate, and derive a new IS algorithm called Incremental Importance Sampling that can provide significantly more accurate estimates for a broad class of domains.
Compatible Reward Inverse Reinforcement Learning,Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL) is an effective approach to recover a reward function that explains the behavior of an expert by observing a set of demonstrations.  This paper is about a novel model-free IRL approach that, differently from most of the existing IRL algorithms, does not require to specify a function space where to search for the expert's reward function. Leveraging on the fact that the policy gradient needs to be zero for any optimal policy, the algorithm generates a set of basis functions that span the subspace of reward functions that make the policy gradient vanish. Within this subspace, using a second-order criterion, we search for the reward function that penalizes the most a deviation from the expert's policy. After introducing our approach for finite domains, we extend it to continuous ones. The proposed approach is empirically compared to other IRL methods both in the (finite) Taxi domain and in the (continuous) Linear Quadratic Gaussian (LQG) and Car on the Hill environments.
Adaptive Batch Size for Safe Policy Gradients,Policy gradient methods are among the best Reinforcement Learning (RL) techniques to solve complex control problems. In real-world RL applications, it is common to have a good initial policy whose performance needs to be improved and it may not be acceptable to try bad policies during the learning process. Although several methods for choosing the step size exist (a parameter that significantly affects the speed and stability of gradient methods), research paid less attention to determine the number of samples used to estimate the gradient direction (batch size) for each update of the policy parameters. In this paper, we propose a set of methods to jointly optimize the step and the batch sizes that guarantee (with high probability) to improve the policy performance after each update. Besides providing theoretical guarantees, we show numerical simulations to analyze the behavior of our methods.
Regret Minimization in MDPs with Options without Prior Knowledge,The option framework integrates temporal abstraction into the reinforcement learning model through the introduction of macro-actions (i.e., options). Recent works leveraged on the mapping of Markov decision processes (MDPs) with options to semi-MDPs (SMDPs) and introduced SMDP-versions of exploration-exploitation algorithms (e.g., \rmaxsmdp and \ucrlsmdp) to analyze the impact of options on the learning performance. Nonetheless, the PAC-SMDP sample complexity of \rmaxsmdp can hardly be translated into equivalent PAC-MDP theoretical guarantees, while \ucrlsmdp requires prior knowledge of the parameters characterizing the distributions of the cumulative reward and duration of each option, which are hardly available in practice. In this paper we remove this limitation by combining the SMDP view together with the inner Markov structure of options into a novel algorithm whose regret performance matches \ucrlsmdp's up to an additive regret term. We show scenarios where this term is negligible and the advantage of temporal abstraction is preserved. We also report preliminary empirical result supporting the theoretical findings.
Is the Bellman residual a bad proxy?,This paper aims at theoretically and empirically comparing two standard optimization criteria for Reinforcement Learning: i) maximization of the mean value and ii) minimization of the Bellman residual. For that purpose, we place ourselves in the framework of policy search algorithms, that are usually designed to maximize the mean value, and derive a method that minimizes the residual $\|T_* v_\pi - v_\pi\|_{1,\nu}$ over policies. A theoretical analysis shows how good this proxy is to policy optimization, and notably that it is better than its value-based counterpart. We also propose experiments on randomly generated generic Markov decision processes, specifically designed for studying the influence of the involved concentrability coefficient. They show that the Bellman residual is generally a bad proxy to policy optimization and that directly maximizing the mean value is much better, despite the current lack of deep theoretical analysis. This might seem obvious, as directly addressing the problem of interest is usually better, but given the prevalence of (projected) Bellman residual minimization in value-based reinforcement learning, we believe that this question is worth to be considered.
Learning Unknown Markov Decision Processes: A Thompson Sampling Approach,We consider the problem of learning an unknown Markov Decision Process (MDP) that is weakly communicating in the infinite horizon setting. We propose a Thompson Sampling-based reinforcement learning algorithm with dynamic episodes (TSDE). At the beginning of each episode, the algorithm generates a sample from the posterior distribution over the unknown model parameters. It then follows the optimal stationary policy for the sampled model for the rest of the episode. The duration of each episode is dynamically determined by two stopping criteria. The first stopping criterion controls the growth rate of episode length. The second stopping criterion happens when the number of visits to any state-action pair is doubled. We establish $\tilde O(HS\sqrt{AT})$ bounds on expected regret under a Bayesian setting, where $S$ and $A$ are the sizes of the state and action spaces, $T$ is time, and $H$ is the bound of the span. This regret bound matches the best available bound for weakly communicating MDPs. Numerical results show it to perform better than existing algorithms for infinite horizon MDPs.
Online Reinforcement Learning in Stochastic Games,We study online reinforcement learning in average-reward stochastic games (SGs). An SG models a two-player zero-sum game in a Markov environment, where state transitions and one-step payoffs are determined simultaneously by a learner and an adversary. We propose the \textsc{UCSG} algorithm that achieves a sublinear regret compared to the game value when competing with an arbitrary opponent. This result improves previous ones under the same setting. The regret bound has a dependency on the \textit{diameter}, which is an intrinsic value related to the mixing property of SGs. Slightly extended, \textsc{UCSG} finds an $\varepsilon$-maximin stationary policy with a sample complexity of $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}\left(\text{poly}(1/\varepsilon)\right)$, where $\varepsilon$ is the error parameter. To the best of our knowledge, this extended result is the first in the average-reward setting. In the analysis, we develop Markov chain's perturbation bounds for mean first passage times and techniques to deal with non-stationary opponents, which may be of interest in their own right. 
Reinforcement Learning under Model Mismatch,We study reinforcement learning under model misspecification,   where we do not have access to the true environment but only to a   reasonably close approximation to it. We address this problem by   extending the framework of robust MDPs to the model-free   Reinforcement Learning setting, where we do not have access to the   model parameters, but can only sample states from it.  We define   robust versions of Q-learning, Sarsa, and   TD-learning and prove convergence to an approximately optimal   robust policy and approximate value function respectively.  We scale   up the robust algorithms to large MDPs via function approximation   and prove convergence under two different settings. We prove   convergence of robust approximate policy iteration and robust   approximate value iteration for linear architectures (under mild   assumptions). We also define a   robust loss function, the mean squared robust projected     Bellman error and give stochastic gradient descent algorithms   that are guaranteed to converge to a local minimum.
Zap Q-Learning,The  Zap Q-learning algorithm introduced in this paper is an improvement of Watkins' original algorithm and recent competitors in several respects.   It is a matrix-gain algorithm designed so that its asymptotic variance is optimal.   Moreover, an ODE analysis suggests that the transient behavior is a close match to a deterministic Newton-Raphson implementation. This is made possible by a  two time-scale update equation for the matrix gain sequence.  The analysis suggests that the approach will lead to stable and efficient computation even for non-ideal parameterized settings. Numerical experiments confirm the quick convergence, even in such non-ideal cases. 
Ensemble Sampling,Thompson sampling has emerged as an effective heuristic for a broad range of online decision problems. In its basic form, the algorithm requires computing and sampling from a posterior distribution over models, which is tractable only for simple special cases. This paper develops ensemble sampling, which aims to approximate Thompson sampling while maintaining tractability even in the face of complex models such as neural networks. Ensemble sampling dramatically expands on the range of applications for which Thompson sampling is viable. We establish a theoretical basis that supports the approach and present computational results that offer further insight.
Action Centered Contextual Bandits,Contextual bandits have become quite popular as they offer a middle ground between very simple approaches based on multi-armed bandits and very complex approaches using the full power of reinforcement learning. They have demonstrated success in web applications and have a rich body of associate theoretical guarantees. Linear models are well understood theoretically and preferred by practitioners because they are not only easy to understand and reason about but also simple to implement and debug. Furthermore, if the linear model is true, we get very strong performance guarantees. Unfortunately, in emerging application in mobile health, the time-invariant linear model assumption is untenable. We provide an extension of the linear model for contextual bandit that has two parts: baseline reward and treatment effect. We allow the former to be complex but keep the latter simple. We argue that this model is plausible for mobile health applications. At the same time, it leads to algorithms with strong performance guarantees as in the linear model setting. Our theory is also supported by experiments on data gathered in a recently concluded mobile health study.
Conservative Contextual Linear Bandits,Safety is a desirable property that can immensely increase the applicability of learning algorithms in real-world decision-making problems. It is much easier for a company to deploy an algorithm that is safe, i.e., guaranteed to perform at least as well as a baseline. In this paper, we study the issue of safety in contextual linear bandits that have application in many different fields including personalized ad recommendation in online marketing. We formulate a notion of safety for this class of algorithms. We develop a safe contextual linear bandit algorithm, called conservative linear UCB (CLUCB), that simultaneously minimizes its regret and satisfies the safety constraint, i.e., maintains its performance above a fixed percentage of the performance of a baseline strategy, uniformly over time. We prove an upper-bound on the regret of CLUCB and show that it can be decomposed into two terms: 1) an upper-bound for the regret of the standard linear UCB algorithm that grows with the time horizon and 2) a constant term that accounts for the loss of being conservative in order to satisfy the safety constraint. We empirically show that our algorithm is safe and validate our theoretical analysis.
Rotting Bandits,The Multi-Armed Bandits (MAB) framework highlights the trade-off between acquiring new knowledge (Exploration) and leveraging available knowledge (Exploitation). In the classical MAB problem, a decision maker must choose an arm at each time step, upon which she receives a reward. The decision maker's objective is to maximize her cumulative expected reward over the time horizon. The MAB problem has been studied extensively, specifically under the assumption of the arms' rewards distributions being stationary, or quasi-stationary, over time. We consider a variant of the MAB framework, which we termed Rotting Bandits, where each arm's expected reward decays as a function of the number of times it has been pulled. We are motivated by many real-world scenarios such as online advertising, content recommendation, crowdsourcing, and more. We present algorithms, accompanied by simulations, and derive theoretical guarantees.
Identifying Outlier Arms in Multi-Armed Bandit,We study a novel problem lying at the intersection of two areas: multi-armed bandit and outlier detection. Multi-armed bandit is a useful tool to model the process of incrementally collecting data for multiple objects in a decision space.  Outlier detection is a powerful method to narrow down the attention to a few objects after the data for them are collected. However, no one has studied how to detect outlier objects while incrementally collecting data for them, which is necessary when data collection is expensive. We formalize this problem as identifying outlier arms in a multi-armed bandit. We propose two algorithms with theoretical guarantee, and analyze their sampling efficiency. Our experimental results on both synthetic and real data show that our solution saves 70-99% of cost from baseline while having nearly perfect accuracy.   
Multi-Task Learning for Contextual Bandits,Contextual bandits are a form of multi-armed bandit in which the agent has access to predictive side information (known as the context) for each arm at each time step, and have been used to model personalized news recommendation, ad placement, and other applications. In this work, we propose a multi-task learning framework for contextual bandit problems. Like multi-task learning in the batch setting, the goal is to leverage similarities in contexts for different arms so as to improve the agent's ability to predict rewards from contexts. We propose an upper confidence bound-based multi-task learning algorithm for contextual bandits, establish a corresponding regret bound, and interpret this bound to quantify the advantages of learning in the presence of high task (arm) similarity. We also describe an effective scheme for estimating task similarity from data, and demonstrate our algorithm's performance on several data sets.
Boltzmann Exploration Done Right,Boltzmann exploration is a classic strategy for sequential decision-making under uncertainty, and is one of the most standard tools in Reinforcement Learning (RL). Despite its widespread use, there is virtually no theoretical understanding about the limitations or the actual benefits of this exploration scheme. Does it drive exploration in a meaningful way? Is it prone to misidentifying the optimal actions or spending too much time exploring the suboptimal ones? What is the right tuning for the learning rate? In this paper, we address several of these questions for the classic setup of stochastic multi-armed bandits. One of our main results is showing that the Boltzmann exploration strategy with any monotone learning-rate sequence will induce suboptimal behavior. As a remedy, we offer a simple non-monotone schedule that guarantees near-optimal performance, albeit only when given prior access to key problem parameters that are typically not available in practical situations (like the time horizon $T$ and the suboptimality gap $\Delta$). More importantly, we propose a novel variant that uses different learning rates for different arms, and achieves a distribution-dependent regret bound of order $\frac{K\log^2 T}{\Delta}$ and a distribution-independent bound of order $\sqrt{KT}\log K$ without requiring such prior knowledge. To demonstrate the flexibility of our technique, we also propose a variant that guarantees the same performance bounds even if the rewards are heavy-tailed.
Improving the Expected Improvement Algorithm,The expected improvement (EI) algorithm is a popular strategy for information collection in optimization under uncertainty. The algorithm is widely known to be too greedy, but nevertheless enjoys wide use due to its simplicity and ability to handle uncertainty and noise in a coherent decision theoretic framework. To provide rigorous insight into EI, we study its properties in a simple setting of Bayesian optimization where the domain consists of a finite grid of points. This is the so-called best-arm identification problem, where the goal is to allocate measurement effort wisely to confidently identify the best arm using a small number of measurements. In this framework, one can show formally that EI is far from optimal. To overcome this shortcoming, we introduce a simple modification of the expected improvement algorithm. Surprisingly, this simple change results in an algorithm that is asymptotically optimal for Gaussian best-arm identification problems, and provably outperforms standard EI by an order of magnitude.
A KL-LUCB algorithm for Large-Scale Crowdsourcing,This paper focuses on best-arm identification in multi-armed bandits with bounded rewards. We develop an algorithm that is a fusion of lil-UCB and KL-LUCB, offering the best qualities of the two algorithms in one method. This is achieved by proving a novel anytime confidence bound for the mean of bounded distributions, which is the analogue of the LIL-type bounds recently developed for sub-Gaussian distributions. We corroborate our theoretical results with numerical experiments based on the New Yorker Cartoon Caption Contest.
Scalable Generalized Linear Bandits: Online Computation and Hashing,  Generalized linear bandits (GLBs), a natural extension of the stochastic linear bandits, has been popular and successful in recent years.  However, the scalability of existing GLBs are poor, which has been limiting their applicability.  This paper proposes new scalable solutions to the GLB problem in two respects.  First, unlike existing GLBs, whose per-time-step space and time complexity grow at least linearly with time $t$, we propose a new algorithm that performs online computations to enjoy a constant space and time complexity.  At its heart is a novel Generalized Linear extension of the Online-to-confidence-set Conversion trick (GLOC) that takes \emph{any} online learning algorithm and turns it into a GLB algorithm.  As a special case, we apply GLOC to the online Newton step algorithm, which results in a low-regret GLB algorithm.  Second, for the case where the number $N$ of arms is very large, we propose new algorithms in which each next arm is selected via an inner product search.  Such methods can be implemented with hashing algorithms (i.e., ``hash-amenable'') and result in a time complexity sublinear in $N$.  While a Thompson sampling extension of GLOC is hash-amenable, its regret bound with $d$-dimensional arm sets scales with $d^{3/2}$, which is worse than scaling with $d$ for GLOC.  Towards closing this gap, we propose a new hash-amenable algorithm whose regret bound scales with $d^{5/4}$.  Additionally, we propose a fast approximate hash-key computation (inner product) that has a better accuracy than the state-of-the-art, which can be of independent interest.  We conclude the paper with preliminary experimental results confirming the merits of our methods.   
Bandits Dueling on Partially Ordered Sets,We address the problem of dueling bandits defined on partially ordered sets, or posets.  In this setting, arms may not be comparable, and there may be several (incomparable) optimal arms.  We propose an algorithm, UnchainedBandits, that efficiently finds the set of optimal arms, or Pareto front, of any poset  even when pairs of comparable arms cannot be a priori distinguished from pairs of incomparable arms,   with a set of minimal assumptions. This means that UnchainedBandits does not require information about comparability and can be used with limited knowledge of the poset. To achieve this, the algorithm relies on the concept of decoys, which stems from social psychology.   We also provide theoretical guarantees on both the regret incurred and the number of comparison required by UnchainedBandits, and we report   compelling empirical results.
Position-based Multiple-play Multi-armed Bandit Problem with Unknown Position Bias,We study a multiple-play multi-armed bandit problem with position bias that involves several slots and the latter slots yield fewer rewards. We characterize the hardness of the problem by deriving an asymptotic regret bound. We propose the Permutation Minimum Empirical Divergence algorithm and derive its asymptotically optimal regret bound. Because of the uncertainty of the position bias, the optimal algorithm for such a problem requires non-convex optimizations that are different from usual partial monitoring and semi-bandit problems. We propose a cutting-plane method and related bi-convex relaxation for these optimizations by using auxiliary variables.  
Online Influence Maximization under Independent Cascade Model with Semi-Bandit Feedback,We study the stochastic online problem of learning to influence in a social network with semi-bandit feedback, where we observe how users influence each other. The problem combines challenges of limited feedback, because the learning agent only observes the influenced portion of the network, and combinatorial number of actions, because the cardinality of the feasible set is exponential in the maximum number of influencers. We propose a computationally efficient UCB-like algorithm, IMLinUCB, and analyze it. Our regret bounds are polynomial in all quantities of interest; reflect the structure of the network and the probabilities of influence. Moreover, they do not depend on inherently large quantities, such as the cardinality of the action set. To the best of our knowledge, these are the first such results. IMLinUCB permits linear generalization and therefore is suitable for large-scale problems. Our experiments show that the regret of IMLinUCB scales as suggested by our upper bounds in several representative graph topologies; and based on linear generalization, IMLinUCB can significantly reduce regret of real-world influence maximization semi-bandits.
A Scale Free Algorithm for Stochastic Bandits with Bounded Kurtosis,Existing strategies for finite-armed stochastic bandits mostly depend on a parameter of scale that must be known in advance. Sometimes this is in the form of a bound on the payoffs, or the knowledge of a variance or subgaussian parameter. The notable exceptions are the analysis of Gaussian bandits with unknown mean and variance by Cowan and Katehakis [2015a] and of uniform distributions with unknown support [Cowan and Katehakis, 2015b]. The results derived in these specialised cases are generalised here to the non-parametric setup, where the learner knows only a bound on the kurtosis of the noise, which is a scale free measure of the extremity of outliers.
Adaptive Active Hypothesis Testing under Limited Information,We consider the problem of active sequential hypothesis testing where a Bayesian decision maker must infer the true hypothesis from a set of hypotheses.  The decision maker may choose for a set of actions, where the outcome of an action is corrupted by independent noise.    In this paper we consider a special case where the decision maker has limited knowledge about the distribution of observations for each action, in that only a binary value is observed.  Our objective is to infer the true hypothesis with low error, while minimizing the number of action sampled.  Our main results include the derivation of a lower bound on sample size for our system under limited knowledge and the design of an active learning policy that matches this lower bound and outperforms similar known algorithms.
Near-Optimal Edge Evaluation in Explicit Generalized Binomial Graphs,Robotic motion-planning problems, such as a UAV flying fast in a partially-known environment or a robot arm moving around cluttered objects, require finding collision-free paths quickly. Typically, this is solved by constructing a graph, where vertices represent robot configurations and edges represent potentially valid movements of the robot between theses configurations. The main computational bottlenecks are expensive edge evaluations to check for collisions. State of the art planning methods do not reason about the optimal sequence of edges to evaluate in order to find a collision free path quickly. In this paper, we do so by drawing a novel equivalence between motion planning and the Bayesian active learning paradigm of decision region determination (DRD). Unfortunately, a straight application of ex- isting methods requires computation exponential in the number of edges in a graph. We present BISECT, an efficient and near-optimal algorithm to solve the DRD problem when edges are independent Bernoulli random variables. By leveraging this property, we are able to significantly reduce computational complexity from exponential to linear in the number of edges. We show that BISECT outperforms several state of the art algorithms on a spectrum of planning problems for mobile robots, manipulators, and real flight data collected from a full scale helicopter.
Robust and Efficient Transfer Learning with Hidden Parameter Markov Decision Processes,We introduce a new formulation of the Hidden Parameter Markov Decision Process (HiP-MDP), a framework for modeling families of related tasks using low-dimensional latent embeddings. We replace the original Gaussian Process-based model with a Bayesian Neural Network. Our new framework correctly models the joint uncertainty in the latent weights and the state space and has more scalable inference, thus expanding the scope the HiP-MDP to applications with higher dimensions and more complex dynamics.
Overcoming Catastrophic Forgetting by Incremental Moment Matching,Catastrophic forgetting is a problem of neural networks that loses the information of the first task after training the second task. Here, we propose incremental moment matching (IMM) to resolve this problem. IMM incrementally matches the moment of the posterior distribution of neural networks, which is trained for the first and the second task, respectively. To make the search space of posterior parameter smooth, the IMM procedure is complemented by various transfer learning techniques including weight transfer, L2-norm of the old and the new parameter, and a variant of dropout with the old parameter. We analyze our approach on various datasets including the MNIST, CIFAR-10, Caltech-UCSD-Birds, and Lifelog datasets. Experimental results show that IMM achieves state-of-the-art performance in a variety of datasets and can balance the information between an old and a new network.
Hypothesis Transfer Learning via Transformation Functions,We consider the Hypothesis Transfer Learning (HTL) problem where one incorporates a hypothesis trained on the source domain into the learning procedure of the target domain. Existing theoretical analysis either only studies specific algorithms or only presents upper bounds on the generalization error but not on the excess risk. In this paper, we propose a unified algorithm-dependent framework for HTL through a novel notion of transformation functions, which characterizes the relation between the source and the target domains. We conduct a general risk analysis of this framework and in particular, we show for the first time, if two domains are related, HTL enjoys faster convergence rates of excess risks for Kernel Smoothing and Kernel Ridge Regression than those of the classical non-transfer learning settings. We accompany this framework with an analysis of cross-validation for HTL to search for the best transfer technique and gracefully reduce to non-transfer learning when HTL is not helpful. Experiments on robotics and neural imaging data demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework.
Learning multiple visual domains with residual adapters,There is a growing interest in learning data representations that work well for many different types of problems and data. In this paper, we look in particular at the task of learning a single visual representation that can be successfully utilized in the analysis of very different types of images, from dog breeds to stop signs and digits. Inspired by recent work on learning networks that predict the parameters of another, we develop a tunable deep network architecture that, by means of adapter residual modules, can be steered on the fly to diverse visual domains. Our method achieves a high degree of parameter sharing while maintaining or even improving the accuracy of domain-specific representations. We also introduce the Visual Decathlon Challenge, a benchmark that evaluates the ability of  representations to capture simultaneously ten very different visual domains and measures their ability to recognize well uniformly.
Self-supervised Learning of Motion Capture,We propose a learning based, end-to-end motion capture model for monocular videos in the wild. Current state of the art solutions for  motion capture  from a single camera are optimization driven: they optimize the parameters of a 3D human model so that its re-projection matches  measurements in the video (e.g. person segmentation, optical flow, keypoint detections etc.). Optimization models are susceptible to local minima. This has been the bottleneck that forced using clean green-screen like backgrounds at capture time, manual initialization, or switching to multiple cameras as input resource.  Instead of optimizing mesh and skeleton parameters directly, our model optimizes neural network weights that predict 3D shape and skeleton configurations given a monocular RGB video. Our model is trained using a combination of strong supervision from synthetic data, and self-supervision from differentiable rendering of (a) skeletal keypoints, (b) dense 3D mesh motion, and (c) human-background segmentation, in an end-to-end trainable framework. Empirically we show our model combines the best of both worlds of supervised learning and test time optimization: supervised learning initializes the model parameters in the right regime, ensuring good pose and surface initialization at test time, without manual effort. Self-supervision by back-propagating through differentiable rendering allows (unsupervised) adaptation of the model to the test data, and offers much tighter fit that a pretrained fixed model. We show that the proposed model improves with experience and converges to low error solutions where previous optimization methods fail.
Information Theoretic Properties of Markov Random Fields, and their Algorithmic Applications,Markov random fields are a popular model for high-dimensional probability distributions. Over the years, many mathematical, statistical and algorithmic problems on them have been studied. Until recently, the only known algorithms for provably learning them relied on exhaustive search, correlation decay or various incoherence assumptions. Bresler gave an algorithm for learning general Ising models on bounded degree graphs. His approach was based on a structural result about mutual information in Ising models.   Here we take a more conceptual approach to proving lower bounds on the mutual information. Our proof generalizes well beyond Ising models, to arbitrary Markov random fields with higher order interactions. As an application, we obtain algorithms for learning Markov random fields on bounded degree graphs on $n$ nodes with $r$-order interactions in $n^r$ time and $\log n$ sample complexity. Our algorithms also extend to various partial observation models. 
Maximizing Subset Accuracy with Recurrent Neural Networks in Multi-label Classification,Multi-label classification is the task of predicting  a set of labels for a given input instance.  Classifier chains are a state-of-the-art method for tackling such problems, which essentially converts this problem into a sequential prediction problem, where the labels are first ordered in an arbitrary fashion, and the task is to predict a   sequence of binary values for these labels. In this paper, we replace classifier chains with recurrent neural networks, a sequence-to-sequence prediction algorithm which has recently been successfully applied to sequential prediction tasks in many domains. The key advantage of such an approach is that it allows to share parameters across all classifiers in the prediction chain, a key property of multi-target prediction problems. As both, classifier chains and recurrent neural networks depend on a fixed ordering of the labels, which is typically not part of a multi-label problem specification, we also compare different ways of ordering the label set, and give some recommendations on suitable ordering strategies.
Local Aggregative Games,Aggregative games provide a rich abstraction to model strategic multi-agent interactions. We focus on learning local aggregative games, where the payoff of each player is a function of its own action and the aggregate behavior of its neighbors in a digraph. We show the existence of pure strategy epsilon-Nash equilibrium in such games when the payoff functions are convex or sub-modular. We prove an information theoretic lower bound, in a value oracle model, on approximating the structure of the digraph with non-negative monotone sub-modular cost functions on the edge set cardinality. We also introduce gamma-aggregative games that generalize local aggregative games, and admit epsilon-Nash equilibrium that are stable with respect to small changes in some specified graph property. Moreover, we provide estimation algorithms for the game theoretic model that can meaningfully recover the underlying structure and payoff functions from real voting data. 
An Empirical Bayes Approach to Optimizing Machine Learning Algorithms,There is rapidly growing interest in using Bayesian optimization to tune model and inference hyperparameters for machine learning algorithms that take a long time to run. For example, Spearmint is a popular software package for selecting the optimal number of layers and learning rate in neural networks. But given that there is uncertainty about which hyperparameters give the best predictive performance, and given that fitting a model for each choice of hyperparameters is costly, it is arguably wasteful to "throw away" all but the best result, as per Bayesian optimization. A related issue is the danger of overfitting the validation data when optimizing many hyperparameters. In this paper, we consider an alternative approach that uses more samples from the hyperparameter selection procedure to average over the uncertainty in model hyperparameters. The resulting approach, empirical Bayes for hyperparameter averaging (EB-Hyp) predicts held-out data better than Bayesian optimization in two experiments on latent Dirichlet allocation and deep latent Gaussian models. EB-Hyp suggests a simpler approach to evaluating and deploying machine learning algorithms that does not require a separate validation data set and hyperparameter selection procedure.
Learning Chordal Markov Networks via Branch and Bound,We present a new algorithmic approach for the computationally hard task of finding a chordal Markov network structure that maximizes a given scoring function. The algorithm is based on branch-and-bound and integrates dynamic programming for both domain pruning and for obtaining strong bounds for search-space pruning. Empirically, we show the approach dominates a recent integer programming approach (Bartlett and Cussens, UAI 2013), and thereby also the constraint optimization approach of Corander et al. (NIPS 2013). Furthermore, our algorithm scales at times further wrt the number of variables than a state-of-the-art dynamic programming algorithm (Kangas et al., NIPS 2014), with the potential of reaching 20 variables and at the same time circumventing the tight exponential lower bounds on memory consumption of the pure dynamic programming approach.
Optimal Sample Complexity of M-wise Data for Top-K Ranking,We explore the top-K rank aggregation problem in which one aims to recover a consistent ordering that focuses on top-K ranked items based on partially revealed preference information. We examine an M-wise comparison model that builds on the Plackett-Luce (PL) model where for each sample, M items are ranked according to their perceived utilities modeled as noisy observations of their underlying true utilities. As our result, we characterize the minimax optimality on the sample size for top-K ranking. The optimal sample size turns out to be inversely proportional to M. We devise an algorithm that effectively converts M-wise samples into pairwise ones and employs a spectral method using the refined data. In demonstrating its optimality, we develop a novel technique for deriving tight $\ell_\infty$ estimation error bounds, which is key to accurately analyzing the performance of top-K ranking algorithms, but has been challenging. Recent work relied on an additional maximum-likelihood estimation (MLE) stage merged with a spectral method to attain good estimates in $\ell_\infty$ error to achieve the limit for the pairwise model. In contrast, although it is valid in slightly restricted regimes, our result demonstrates a spectral method alone to be sufficient for the general M-wise model. We run numerical experiments using synthetic data and confirm that the optimal sample size decreases at the rate of 1/M. Moreover, running our algorithm on real-world data, we find that its applicability extends to settings that may not fit the PL model.
Translation Synchronization via Truncated Least Squares,In this paper, we introduce a robust algorithm \textsl{TranSync} for the 1D translation synchronization problem, which aims to recover the global coordinates of a set of nodes from noisy relative measurements along a pre-defined observation graph. The basic idea of TranSync is to apply truncated least squares, where the solution at each step is used to gradually prune out noisy measurements. We analyze TranSync under a deterministic noisy model, demonstrating its robustness and stability. Experimental results on synthetic and real datasets show that TranSync is superior to state-of-the-art convex formulations in terms of both efficiency an accuracy.  
From Bayesian Sparsity to Gated Recurrent Nets,The iterations of many first-order algorithms, when applied to minimizing common regularized regression functions, often resemble neural network layers with pre-specified weights.  This observation has prompted the development of learning-based approaches that purport to replace these iterations with enhanced surrogates forged as DNN models from available training data.  For example, important NP-hard sparse estimation problems have recently benefitted from this genre of upgrade, with simple feedforward or recurrent networks ousting proximal gradient-based iterations.  Analogously, this paper demonstrates that more powerful Bayesian algorithms for promoting sparsity, which rely on complex multi-loop majorization-minimization techniques, mirror the structure of more sophisticated long short-term memory (LSTM) networks, or alternative gated feedback networks previously designed for sequence prediction.  As part of this development, we examine the parallels between latent variable trajectories operating across multiple time-scales during optimization, and the activations within deep network structures designed to adaptively model such characteristic sequences.  The resulting insights lead to a novel sparse estimation system that, when granted training data, can estimate optimal solutions efficiently in regimes where other algorithms fail, including practical direction-of-arrival (DOA) and 3D geometry recovery problems.   The underlying principles we expose are also suggestive of a learning process for a richer class of multi-loop algorithms in other domains. 
Online Learning for Multivariate Hawkes Processes,We develop a nonparametric and online learning algorithm that estimates the triggering functions of a multivariate Hawkes process (MHP). The approach we take approximates the triggering function $f_{i,j}(t)$ by functions in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS), and maximizes a time-discretized version of the log-likelihood, with Tikhonov regularization. Theoretically, our algorithm achieves an $\calO(\log T)$ regret bound. Numerical results show that our algorithm offers a competing performance to that of the nonparametric batch learning algorithm, with a run time comparable to the parametric online learning algorithm.
Efficient Second-Order Online Kernel Learning with Adaptive Embedding,Online kernel learning (OKL) is a flexible framework to approach prediction problems, since the large approximation space provided by reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces can contain an accurate function for the problem. Nonetheless, optimizing over this space is computationally expensive. Not only first order methods accumulate $\O(\sqrt{T})$ more loss than the optimal function, but the curse of kernelization results in a $\O(t)$ per step complexity. Second-order methods get closer to the optimum much faster, suffering only $\O(\log(T))$ regret, but second-order updates are even more expensive, with a $\O(t^2)$ per-step cost. Existing approximate OKL methods try to reduce this complexity either by limiting the Support Vectors (SV) introduced in the predictor, or by avoiding the kernelization process altogether using embedding. Nonetheless, as long as the size of the approximation space or the number of SV does not grow over time, an adversary can always exploit the approximation process. In this paper, we propose PROS-N-KONS, a method that combines Nystrom sketching to project the input point in a small, accurate embedded space, and performs efficient second-order updates in this space. The embedded space is continuously updated to guarantee that the embedding remains accurate, and we show that the per-step cost only grows with the effective dimension of the problem and not with $T$. Moreover, the second-order updated allows us to achieve the logarithmic regret. We empirically compare our algorithm on recent large-scales benchmarks and show it performs favorably.
Online to Offline Conversions and Adaptive Minibatch Sizes,We present an approach towards convex optimization that relies on a novel scheme which  converts  adaptive online algorithms into offline methods. In the offline optimization setting, our derived methods are shown to obtain favourable adaptive  guarantees which depend on the \emph{harmonic sum} of the queried gradients.  We further  show that our methods implicitly adapt to the objective's structure: in the smooth case fast  convergence rates are ensured without any prior knowledge of the smoothness parameter, while  still maintaining guarantees in the non-smooth setting. Our approach has a natural extension to the stochastic setting, resulting in a lazy version of SGD  (stochastic GD), where minibathces are chosen \emph{adaptively} depending on the magnitude of  the gradients. Thus providing a principled approach towards choosing minibatch sizes.
Nonparametric Online Regression while Learning the Metric,We study algorithms for online nonparametric regression that learn the directions along which the regression function is smoother. Our algorithm learns the Mahalanobis metric based on the gradient outer product matrix G of the regression function (automatically adapting to the effective rank of this matrix), while simultaneously bounding the regret --on the same data sequence-- in terms of the spectrum of G. As a preliminary step in our analysis, we generalize a nonparametric online learning algorithm by Hazan and Megiddo by enabling it to compete against functions whose Lipschitzness is measured with respect to an arbitrary Mahalanobis metric.
Stochastic and Adversarial Online Learning without Hyperparameters,Most online optimization algorithms focus on one of two things: performing well in adversarial settings by adapting to unknown data parameters (such as Lipschitz constants), typically achieving $O(\sqrt{T})$ regret, or performing well in stochastic settings where they can leverage some structure in the losses (such as strong convexity), typically achieving $O(\log(T))$ regret. Algorithms that focus on the former problem hitherto achieved $O(\sqrt{T})$ in the stochastic setting rather than $O(\log(T))$. Here we introduce an online optimization algorithm that achieves $O(\log^4(T))$ regret in a wide class of stochastic settings while gracefully degrading to the optimal $O(\sqrt{T})$ regret in adversarial settings (up to logarithmic factors). Our algorithm does not require any prior knowledge about the data or tuning of parameters to achieve superior performance.
Affine-Invariant Online Optimization,We present a new affine-invariant optimization algorithm called \emph{Online Lazy Newton}. The algorithm is a modification of the Online Newton Step algorithm. The convergence rate of Online Lazy Newton is independent of conditioning: the algorithm's performance depends on the best possible preconditioning of the problem in retrospect and on its \emph{intrinsic} dimensionality. As an application, we show how the Online Lazy Newton can achieve the optimal $\widetilde{\Theta}(\sqrt{rT})$ regret for the low rank experts problem, improving by a $\sqrt{r}$ factor over the previously best known bound and resolving an open problem posed by Hazan et al. (2016). 
Online Convex Optimization with Stochastic Constraints,This paper considers online convex optimization  (OCO) with stochastic constraints, which generalizes Zinkevich's OCO over a known simple fixed set by introducing multiple stochastic functional constraints that are i.i.d. generated at each round and are disclosed to the decision maker only after the decision is made. This formulation arises naturally when decisions are restricted by stochastic environments or deterministic environments with noisy information. It also includes many important problems such as OCO with long term constraints, stochastic constrained convex optimization and deterministic constrained convex optimization as special case.  To solve this problem, this paper proposes a new algorithm that achieves $O(\sqrt{T})$ expected regret and constraint violations and $O(\sqrt{T}\log(T))$ high probability regret and constraint violations. Experiments on a real-world data center scheduling problem further verify the performance of the new algorithm.
Online Learning with a Hint,We study a variant of online linear optimization where the player receives a hint about the loss function at the beginning of each round. The hint is given in the form of a vector that is weakly correlated with the loss vector on that round. We show that the player can benefit from such a hint if the set of feasible actions is sufficiently round. Specifically, if the set is strongly convex, the hint can be used to guarantee a regret of O(log(T)), and if the set is q-uniformly convex for q\in(2,3), the hint can be used to guarantee a regret of o(sqrt{T}). In contrast, we establish Omega(sqrt{T}) lower bounds on regret when the set of feasible actions is a polyhedron.
Efficient Online Linear Optimization with Approximation Algorithms,We revisit the problem of Online Linear Optimization in case the set of feasible actions is accessible through an approximated linear optimization oracle with a factor $\alpha$ multiplicative approximation guarantee. This setting is in particular interesting since it captures natural online extensions of well-studied offline linear optimization problems which are NP-hard, yet admit efficient approximation algorithms. The goal here is to minimize the $\alpha$-regret which is the natural extension of the standard regret in online learning to this setting.   We present new  algorithms with significantly improved oracle complexity for both the full information and bandit variants of the problem. Mainly, for both variants, we present $\alpha$-regret bounds of $O(T^{-1/3})$, were $T$ is the number of prediction rounds, using only $O(\log(T))$ calls to the approximation oracle per iteration, on average. These are the first results to obtain both average oracle complexity of $O(\log(T))$ (or even poly-logarithmic in $T$) and $\alpha$-regret bound $O(T^{-c})$ for a positive constant $c$, for both variants.
Random Permutation Online Isotonic Regression,We revisit isotonic regression on linear orders, which is the problem of fitting monotonic functions to best explain the data, in online settings. It was previously shown that online isotonic regression is unlearnable in a fully adversarial model, and this lead to its study in the fixed design model. Here we instead develop the more practical random permutation model. We show that the regret is bounded above by the excess leave-one-out loss for which we develop efficient algorithms and matching lower bounds. We also analyze the class of simple and popular forward algorithms, and make some recommendations where to look for algorithms for online isotonic regression on partial orders. 
Minimax Optimal Players for the Finite-Time 3-Expert Prediction Problem,We study minimax strategies for the online prediction problem with expert advice. It has been conjectured that a simple adversary strategy, called COMB, is optimal in this game for any number of experts. Our results and new insights make progress in this direction by showing that, up to small additive term, COMB is minimax optimal in the finite-time three expert problem. In addition, we provide for this setting a new minimax optimal \comb-based learner. Prior to this work, in this fundamental learning problem,  optimal learners were known only when K=2 or $K\rightarrow\infty$.  For K > 2, the regret of  the previous state-of-the-art learner scales as  $\sqrt{\log(K)T/2}$ which is 39% larger than the regret of our learner in the three expert case. We also characterize, when K=3, the regret of the game scaling as $\sqrt{8/(9\pi)T} +/- \log(T)^2$ which gives for the first time the optimal constant in the leading ($\sqrt{T}$) term of the regret.
Online Learning of Optimal Bidding Strategy in Repeated Multi-Commodity Auctions,We study the online learning problem of a bidder who participates in repeated auctions. With the goal of maximizing his T-period payoff, the bidder determines the optimal allocation of his budget among his bids for $K$ goods at each period. As a bidding strategy, we propose a polynomial time algorithm, inspired by the dynamic programming approach to the knapsack problem. Referred to as dynamic programming on discrete set (DPDS), the proposed algorithm achieves a regret order of $O(\sqrt{T\log{T}})$. By showing that the regret is lower bounded by $\Omega(\sqrt{T})$ for any strategy, we conclude that DPDS is order optimal up to a $\sqrt{\log{T}}$ term. We evaluate the performance of DPDS empirically in the context of virtual trading in wholesale electricity markets by using historical data from the New York market. Empirical results show that DPDS consistently outperforms benchmark heuristic methods, derived from machine learning and online learning approaches.
Online Prediction with Selfish Experts,We consider the problem of binary prediction with expert advice in settings where experts have agency and seek to maximize their credibility. This paper makes three main contributions.  First, it defines a model to reason formally about settings with selfish experts, and demonstrates that  ``incentive compatible'' (IC) algorithms are closely related to the design of proper scoring rules.   Second, we design IC algorithms with good performance guarantees for the absolute loss function. Third, we give a formal separation between the power of online prediction with selfish experts and online prediction with honest experts by proving lower bounds for both IC and non-IC algorithms.  In particular, with selfish experts and the absolute loss function, there is no (randomized) algorithm for online prediction---IC or otherwise---with asymptotically vanishing regret.
Real-Time Bidding with Side Information,We consider the problem of repeated bidding in online advertising auctions when some side information (e.g. browser cookies) is available ahead of submitting a bid in the form of a $d$-dimensional vector. The goal for the advertiser is to maximize the total utility (e.g. the total number of clicks) derived from displaying ads given that a limited budget $B$ is allocated for a given time horizon $T$. Optimizing the bids is modeled as a linear contextual Multi-Armed Bandit (MAB) problem with a knapsack constraint and a continuum of arms. We develop UCB-type algorithms that combine two streams of literature: the confidence-set approach to linear contextual MABs and the probabilistic bisection search method for stochastic root-finding. Under mild assumptions on the underlying unknown distribution, we establish distribution-independent regret bounds of order $\tilde{O}(d \cdot \sqrt{T})$ when either $B = \infty$ or when $B$ scales linearly with $T$.
A General Framework for Robust Interactive Learning,We propose a general framework for interactively learning models, such as (binary or non-binary) classifiers, orderings/rankings of items, or clusterings of data points. Our framework is based on a generalization of Angluin's Equivalence Query Model: in each iteration, the algorithm proposes a model, and the user either accepts it or reveals a specific mistake in the proposal. The feedback is correct only with probability p > 0.5, (and adversarially incorrect with probability 1 - p), i.e., the algorithm must be able to learn in the presence of arbitrary noise. The algorithm's goal is to learn the ground truth model using few iterations.  Our general framework is based on a graph representation of the models and user feedback. To be able to learn efficiently, it is sufficient that there be a graph G whose nodes are the models and (weighted) edges capture the user feedback, with the property that if s, s* are the proposed and target models, then any (correct) user feedback s' must lie on a shortest s-s* path in G. Under this one assumption, there is a natural algorithm reminiscent of the Multiplicative Weights Update algorithm, which will efficiently learn s^* even in the presence of random noise in the user's feedback.  From this general result, we rederive with barely any extra effort classic results on learning of classifiers and a recent result on interactive clustering; in addition, we easily obtain new interactive learning algorithms for ordering/ranking.
Practical Locally Private Heavy Hitters,We present new practical local differentially private heavy hitters algorithms achieving optimal or near-optimal worst-case error -- $\treehist$ and $\bithist$. In both algorithms, server running time is $\tilde O(n^{3/2})$ and user running time is $\tilde O(n^{1/2})$, hence improving on the prior state-of-the-art result of Bassily and Smith [STOC 2015] requiring $O(n^{5/2})$ server time and $O(n^{3/2})$ user time. With a typically large number of participants in local algorithms ($n$ in the millions), this reduction in time complexity, in particular at the user side, is crucial for the use of such algorithms in practice. We implemented Algorithm $\treehist$ to verify our theoretical analysis and compared its performance with the performance of Google's RAPPOR code. 
Deanonymization in the Bitcoin P2P Network,Recent attacks on Bitcoin's peer-to-peer (P2P) network demonstrated that its transaction-flooding protocols, which are used to ensure network consistency, may enable user deanonymization---the linkage of a user's IP address with her pseudonym in the Bitcoin network. In 2015, the Bitcoin community responded to these attacks by changing the network's flooding mechanism to a different protocol, known as diffusion. However, it is unclear if diffusion actually improves the system's anonymity. In this paper, we model the Bitcoin networking stack and analyze its anonymity properties, both pre- and post-2015. The core problem is one of epidemic source inference over graphs, where the observational model and spreading mechanisms are informed by Bitcoin's implementation; notably, these models have not been studied in the epidemic source detection literature before. We identify and analyze near-optimal source estimators. This analysis suggests that Bitcoin's networking protocols (both pre- and post-2015) offer poor anonymity properties on networks with a regular-tree topology. We confirm this claim in simulation on a 2015 snapshot of the real Bitcoin P2P network topology.
Accuracy First: Selecting a Differential Privacy Level for Accuracy Constrained ERM,Traditional approaches to differential privacy assume a fixed privacy requirement  for a computation, and attempt to maximize the accuracy of the computation subject to the privacy constraint. As differential privacy is increasingly deployed in practical settings, it may often be that there is instead a fixed accuracy requirement for a given computation and the data analyst would like to maximize the privacy of the computation subject to the accuracy constraint. This raises the question of how to find and run a maximally private empirical risk minimizer subject to a given accuracy requirement. We propose a general noise reduction framework that can apply to a variety of private empirical risk minimization (ERM) algorithms, using them to search the space of privacy levels to find the empirically strongest one that meets the accuracy constraint, and incurring only logarithmic overhead in the number of privacy levels searched. The privacy analysis of our algorithm leads naturally to a version of differential privacy where the privacy parameters are dependent on the data, which we term ex-post privacy, and which is related to the recently introduced notion of privacy odometers. We also give an ex-post privacy analysis of the classical AboveThreshold privacy tool, modifying it to allow for queries chosen depending on the database. Finally, we apply our approach to two common objective functions, regularized linear and logistic regression, and empirically compare our noise reduction methods to (i) inverting the theoretical utility guarantees of standard private ERM algorithms and (ii) a stronger empirical baseline based on binary search.
Renyi Differential Privacy Mechanisms for Posterior Sampling,With the newly proposed privacy definition of Rnyi Differential Privacy (RDP) in (Mironov, 2017), we re-examine the inherent privacy of releasing a single sample from a posterior distribution. We exploit the impact of the prior distribution in mitigating the influence of individual data points. In particular, we focus on sampling from an exponential family and specific generalized linear models, such as logistic regression. We propose novel RDP mechanisms as well as offering a new RDP analysis for an existing method in order to add value to the RDP framework. Each method is capable of achieving arbitrary RDP privacy guarantees, and we offer experimental results of their efficacy. 
Collecting Telemetry Data Privately,The collection and analysis of telemetry data from users devices is routinely performed by many software companies. Telemetry collection leads to improved user experience and but poses significant risks to users privacy. Locally differentially private (LDP) algorithms have recently emerged as the main tool that allows data collectors to estimate various population statistics, while preserving privacy. The guarantees provided by such algorithms are typically very strong for a single round of telemetry collection, but degrade rapidly when telemetry is collected regularly. In particular, existing LDP algorithms are not suitable for repeated collection of counter data such as daily app usage statistics. In this paper, we develop new LDP mechanisms geared towards repeated collection of counter data, with formal privacy guarantees even after being executed for an arbitrarily long period of time. For two basic analytical tasks, mean estimation and histogram estimation, our LDP mechanisms for repeated data collection provide estimates with comparable or even the same accuracy as existing single-round LDP collection mechanisms. We conduct empirical evaluation on real-world counter datasets to verify our theoretical results. Our mechanisms have been deployed by a Fortune 500 company to collect telemetry across millions of devices.
Generating steganographic images via adversarial training,Adversarial training has proved to be competitive against supervised learning methods on computer vision tasks. However, studies have mainly been confined to generative tasks such as image synthesis. In this paper, we apply adversarial training techniques to the discriminative task of learning a steganographic algorithm. Steganography is a collection of techniques for concealing the existence of information by embedding it within a non-secret medium, such as cover texts or images. We show that adversarial training can produce robust steganographic techniques: our unsupervised training scheme produces a steganographic algorithm that competes with state-of-the-art steganographic techniques. We also show that supervised training of our adversarial model produces a robust steganalyzer, which performs the discriminative task of deciding if an image contains secret information. We define a game between three parties, Alice, Bob and Eve, in order to simultaneously train both a steganographic algorithm and a steganalyzer. Alice and Bob attempt to communicate a secret message contained within an image, while Eve eavesdrops on their conversation and attempts to determine if secret information is embedded within the image. We represent Alice, Bob and Eve by neural networks, and validate our scheme on two independent image datasets, showing our novel method of studying steganographic problems is surprisingly competitive against established steganographic techniques.
Fitting Low-Rank Tensors in Constant Time,  In this paper, we develop an algorithm that approximates the   residual error of Tucker decomposition, one of the most popular   tensor decomposition methods, with a provable guarantee.  Given an   order-$K$ tensor $X\in\mathbb{R}^{N_1\times\cdots\times N_K}$, our   algorithm randomly samples a constant number $s$ of indices for each   mode and creates a ``mini'' tensor   $\tilde{X}\in\mathbb{R}^{s\times\cdots\times s}$, whose elements are   given by the intersection of the sampled indices on $X$.  Then, we   show that the residual error of the Tucker decomposition of   $\tilde{X}$ is sufficiently close to that of $X$ with high   probability.  This result implies that we can figure out how much we   can fit a low-rank tensor to $X$ \emph{in constant time}, regardless   of the size of $X$. This is useful for guessing the favorable rank   of Tucker decomposition.  Finally, we demonstrate how the sampling   method works quickly and accurately using multiple real datasets.
Thy Friend is My Friend: Iterative Collaborative Filtering for Sparse Matrix Estimation,The sparse matrix estimation problem consists of estimating the distribution of an $n\times n$  matrix $Y$, from a sparsely observed single instance of this matrix where the entries of $Y$ are independent random variables. This captures a wide array of problems; special instances include matrix completion in the context of recommendation systems, graphon estimation, and community detection in (mixed membership) stochastic block models. Inspired by classical collaborative filtering for recommendation systems, we propose a novel iterative, collaborative filtering-style algorithm for matrix estimation in this generic setting. We show that the mean squared error (MSE) of our estimator goes to $0$ as long as $\omega(d^2 n)$ random entries from a total of $n^2$ entries of $Y$ are observed (uniformly sampled), $\E[Y]$ has rank $d$, and the entries of $Y$ have bounded support. The maximum squared error across all entries converges to $0$ with high probability as long as we observe a little more, $\Omega(d^2 n \ln^2(n))$ entries. Our results are the best known sample complexity results in this generality. Our intuitive, easy to implement iterative nearest-neighbor style algorithm matches the conjectured sample complexity lower bound of $d^2 n$ for a computationally efficient algorithm for detection in the mixed membership stochastic block model.
Fair Clustering Through Fairlets,We study the question of fair clustering under the {\em disparate     impact} doctrine, where each protected class must have   approximately equal representation in every cluster. We formulate   the fair clustering problem under both the $k$-center and the   $k$-median objectives, and show that even with two protected classes   the problem is challenging, as the optimum solution violates common   conventions---for instance a point may no longer be assigned to its   nearest cluster center!    En route we introduce the concept of fairlets, which are minimal   sets that satisfy fair representation while approximately preserving   the clustering objective.  We show that any fair clustering problem   can be decomposed into first finding appropriate fairlets, and then   using existing machinery for traditional clustering algorithms.   While finding good fairlets can be NP-hard, we proceed to obtain   efficient approximation algorithms based on minimum cost flow.    We empirically demonstrate the \emph{price of fairness} by comparing   the value of fair clustering on real-world datasets with sensitive   attributes. 
On Fairness and Calibration,The machine learning community has become increasingly concerned with the potential for bias and discrimination in predictive models, and this has motivated a growing line of work on what it means for a classification procedure to be fair. In particular, we investigate the tension between minimizing error disparity across different population groups while maintaining calibrated probability estimates. We show that calibration is compatible only with a single error constraint (i.e. equal false-negatives rates across groups), and show that any algorithm that satisfies this relaxation is no better than randomizing a percentage of predictions for an existing classifier. These unsettling findings, which extend and generalize existing results, are empirically confirmed on several datasets.
 Avoiding Discrimination through Causal Reasoning,Recent work on fairness in machine learning has focused on various statistical discrimination criteria and how they trade off. Most of these criteria are observational: They depend only on the joint distribution of predictor, protected attribute, features, and outcome. While convenient to work with, observational criteria have severe inherent limitations that prevent them from resolving matters of fairness conclusively.  Going beyond observational criteria, we frame the problem of discrimination based on protected attributes in the language of causal reasoning. This viewpoint shifts attention from "What is the right fairness criterion?" to "What do we want to assume about the causal data generating process?" Through the lens of causality, we make several contributions. First, we crisply articulate why and when observational criteria fail, thus formalizing what was before a matter of opinion. Second, our approach exposes previously ignored subtleties and why they are fundamental to the problem. Finally, we put forward natural causal non-discrimination criteria and develop algorithms that satisfy them. 
Optimized Pre-Processing for Discrimination Prevention,Non-discrimination is a recognized objective in algorithmic decision making. In this paper, we introduce a novel probabilistic formulation of data pre-processing for reducing discrimination. We propose a convex optimization for learning a data transformation with three goals: controlling discrimination, limiting distortion in individual data samples, and preserving utility. We characterize the impact of limited sample size in accomplishing this objective. Two instances of the proposed optimization are applied to datasets, including one on real-world criminal recidivism. Results show that discrimination can be greatly reduced at a small cost in classification accuracy.
Recycling for Fairness: Learning with Conditional Distribution Matching Constraints,Equipping machine learning models with ethical and legal constraints is a serious issue; without this, the future of machine learning is at risk. This paper takes a step forward in this direction and focuses on ensuring machine learning models deliver fair decisions.  In the legal scholarships, the notion of fairness itself is evolving and multi-faceted.  We set an overarching goal to develop a unified machine learning framework that is able to handle any definitions of fairness, their combinations, and also new definitions that might be stipulated in the future. To achive our goal, we recycle two well-established machine learning techniques, privileged learning and distribution matching, and harmonize them for satisfying multi-faceted fairness definitions. We consider protected characteristics such as race and gender as privileged information; this accelerates model training and delivers fairness through unawareness. Further, we cast demographic parity, equalized odds, and equal opportunity as a classical two-sample problem of conditional distributions, which can be solved in a general form by using distance measures in Hilbert Space. Finally, we show several existing models are special cases of ours.
From Parity to Preference: Learning with Cost-effective Notions of Fairness,The adoption of automated, data-driven decision making in an ever expanding range of applications has raised concerns about its potential unfairness towards certain social groups. In this context, a number of recent studies have focused on defining, detecting, and removing unfairness from data-driven decision systems. However, the existing notions of fairness, based on parity (equality) in treatment or outcomes for different social groups, tend to be needlessly stringent, limiting the overall decision making accuracy. In this paper, we draw inspiration from the fair-division and envy-freeness literature in economics and game theory and propose preference-based notions of fairness--given the choice between various sets of decision treatments or outcomes, any group of users would collectively prefer its treatment or outcomes, regardless of the (dis)parity as compared to the other groups. Then, we introduce tractable proxies to design convex margin-based classifiers that satisfy these preference-based notions of fairness. Finally, we experiment with a variety of synthetic and real-world datasets and show that preference-based fairness allows for greater decision accuracy than parity-based fairness.
Beyond Parity: Fairness Objectives for Collaborative Filtering,We study fairness in collaborative-filtering recommender systems, which are sensitive to discrimination that exists in historical data. Biased data can lead collaborative-filtering methods to make unfair predictions for users from minority groups. We identify the insufficiency of existing fairness metrics and propose four new metrics that address different forms of unfairness. These fairness metrics can be optimized by adding fairness terms to the learning objective. Experiments on synthetic and real data show that our new metrics can better measure fairness than the baseline, and that the fairness objectives effectively help reduce unfairness.
Multi-view Matrix Factorization for Linear Dynamical System Estimation,We consider maximum likelihood estimation of linear dynamical systems with generalized-linear observation models. Maximum likelihood is typically considered  to be hard in this setting since latent states and transition parameters must be  inferred jointly. Given that expectation-maximization does not scale and is prone  to local minima, moment-matching approaches from the subspace identification literature have become standard, despite known statistical efficiency issues. In this paper, we instead reconsider likelihood maximization and develop an optimization  based strategy for recovering the latent states and transition parameters. Key to  our approach is a two-view reformulation of maximum likelihood estimation for  linear dynamical systems that enables the use of global optimization algorithms for  matrix factorization. We show that the proposed estimation strategy outperforms  widely-used identification algorithms such as subspace identification methods, both  in terms of accuracy and runtime.
Random Projection Filter Bank for Time Series Data,We propose Random Projection Filter Bank (RPFB) as a generic and simple approach to extract features from time series data. RPFB is a set of randomly generated stable autoregressive filters that are convolved with the input time series to generate the features. These features can be used by any conventional machine learning algorithm for solving tasks such as time series prediction, classification with time series data, etc. Different filters in RPFB extract different aspects of the time series, and together they provide a reasonably good summary of the time series. RPFB is easy to implement, fast to compute, and parallelizable. We provide a finite-sample error upper bound that shows that RPFB provides reasonable approximation to class of dynamical systems. The empirical results in a series of synthetic and real-world problems show that RPFB is an effective way to extract features from time series. 
A Dirichlet Mixture Model of Hawkes Processes for Event Sequence Clustering,How to cluster event sequences generated via different point processes is an interesting and important problem in statistical machine learning.  To solve this problem, we propose and discuss an effective model-based clustering method based on a novel Dirichlet mixture model of a special but significant type of point processes --- Hawkes process.  The proposed model generates the event sequences with different clusters from the Hawkes processes with different parameters, and uses a Dirichlet process as the prior distribution of the clusters.  We prove the identifiability of our mixture model and propose an effective variational Bayesian inference algorithm to learn our model.  An adaptive inner iteration allocation strategy is designed to accelerate the convergence of our algorithm. Moreover, we investigate the sample complexity and the computational complexity  of our learning algorithm in depth.  Experiments on both synthetic and real-world data show that the clustering method based on our model can learn structural triggering patterns hidden in asynchronous event sequences robustly and achieve superior performance on clustering purity and consistency compared to existing methods.
Predicting User Activity Level In Point Process Models With Mass Transport Equation,Point processes are powerful tools to model user activities and have a plethora of applications in social sciences. Predicting user activities based on point processes is a central problem. However, existing works are mostly problem specific, use heuristics, or simplify the stochastic nature of point processes. In this paper, we propose a framework that provides an unbiased estimator of the probability mass function of point processes. In particular, we design a key reformulation of the prediction problem, and further derive a differential-difference equation to compute a conditional probability mass function. Our framework is applicable to general point processes and prediction tasks, and achieves superb predictive and efficiency performance in diverse real-world applications compared to state-of-arts.  
Off-policy evaluation for slate recommendation,This paper studies the evaluation of policies that recommend an ordered set of items (e.g., a ranking) based on some context---a common scenario in web search, ads, and recommendation. We build on techniques from combinatorial bandits to introduce a new practical estimator.  A thorough empirical evaluation on real-world data reveals that our estimator is accurate in a variety of settings, including as a subroutine in a learning-to-rank task, where it achieves competitive performance. We derive conditions under which our estimator is unbiased---these conditions are weaker than prior heuristics for slate evaluation---and experimentally demonstrate a smaller bias than parametric approaches, even when these conditions are violated. Finally, our theory and experiments also show exponential savings in the amount of required data compared with general unbiased estimators.
Expectation Propagation with Stochastic Kinetic Model in Complex Interaction Systems,Technological breakthroughs allow us to collect data with increasing spatio-temporal resolution from complex systems. The combination of high-resolution data and strong theoretical models such as dynamic belief networks and Bethe free energy formulation can lead to crucial understanding about the complex interaction dynamics and functions of those systems. In this paper, we formulate the dynamics of a complex interacting network as a stochastic process driven by a sequence of events, and develop expectation propagation algorithms to make inference from noisy observations. To avoid getting stuck at a local optimum, we formulate the problem of minimizing Bethe free energy as a constrained optimization problem, where a local optimum is also a global optimum. Our expectation propagation algorithms show good performance in inferring the interaction dynamics in complex transportation networks than competing models such as particle filter, extended Kalman filter, and deep neural networks.
A multi-agent reinforcement learning model of common-pool resource appropriation,NOTE TO THE REVIEWER: Due to a mistake in our final submission process, Figs. 5a and 5b are wrong. However, correct versions of both are in the appendix. The intended Fig. 5a+b are shown in Fig. 9(first+last). Note also that appendix Figs. 8a and 10 were also mislabeled. We apologize for the confusion and will correct in the final version. Humanity faces numerous problems of common-pool resource appropriation. This class of multi-agent social dilemma includes the problems of ensuring sustainable use of fresh water, common fisheries, grazing pastures, and irrigation systems. Abstract models of common pool-resource appropriation based on non-cooperative game theory predict that self-interested agents will generally fail to find socially positive equilibria---a phenomenon called the tragedy of the commons. However, in reality, human societies are sometimes able to discover and implement stable cooperative solutions. Decades of behavioral game theory research have sought to uncover aspects of human behavior that make this possible. Most of that work was based on laboratory experiments where participants only make a single choice: how much to appropriate. Recognizing the importance of spatial and temporal resource dynamics, a recent trend has been toward experiments in more complex real-time video game-like environments. However, standard methods of non-cooperative game theory can no longer be used to generate predictions for this case. Here we show that deep reinforcement learning can be used instead. To that end, we study the emergent behavior of groups of independently learning agents in a partially observed Markov game modeling CPR appropriation. Our experiments highlight the importance of trial-and-error learning in common-pool resource appropriation and shed light on the relationship between exclusion, sustainability, and inequality.
Balancing information exposure in social networks,Social media has brought a revolution on how people are consuming news.  Beyond the undoubtedly large number of advantages brought by social-media platforms, a point of criticism has been the creation of echo chambers and filter bubbles, caused by social homophily and algorithmic personalization.  In this paper we address the problem of balancing the information exposure} in a social network.  We assume that two opposing campaigns (or viewpoints) are present in the network, and that network nodes have different preferences towards these campaigns.  Our goal is to find two sets of nodes to employ in the respective campaigns, so that the overall information exposure for the two campaigns is balanced.  We formally define the problem, characterize its hardness, develop approximation algorithms, and present experimental evaluation results.  Our model is inspired by the literature on influence maximization, but we offer significant novelties.  First, balance of information exposure is modeled by a symmetric difference function, which is neither monotone nor submodular, and thus, not amenable to existing approaches.  Second, while previous papers consider a setting with selfish agents and provide bounds on best response strategies (i.e., move of the last player), we consider a setting with a centralized agent and provide bounds for a global objective function. 
Scalable Demand-Aware Recommendation,Recommendation for e-commerce with a mix of durable and nondurable goods has characteristics that distinguish it from the well-studied media recommendation problem.  The demand for items is a combined effect of form utility and time utility, i.e., a product must both be intrinsically appealing to a consumer and the time must be right for purchase.  In particular for durable goods, time utility is a function of inter-purchase duration within product category because consumers are unlikely to purchase two items in the same category in close temporal succession.  Moreover, purchase data, in contrast to ratings data, is implicit with non-purchases not necessarily indicating dislike.  Together, these issues give rise to the positive-unlabeled demand-aware recommendation problem that we pose via joint low-rank tensor completion and product category inter-purchase duration vector estimation.  We further relax this problem and propose a highly scalable alternating minimization approach with which we can solve problems with millions of users and millions of items in a single thread. We also show superior prediction accuracies on multiple real-world data sets.
A Greedy Approach for Budgeted Maximum Inner Product Search,Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS) is an important task in many machine learning applications such as the prediction phase of a low-rank matrix factorization model for a recommender system. Recently, there has been substantial research on how to perform MIPS in sub-linear time recently.  However, most of the existing work does not have the flexibility to control the trade-off between search efficiency and search quality. In this paper, we study the important problem of MIPS with a computational budget. By carefully studying the problem structure of MIPS, we develop a novel Greedy-MIPS algorithm, which can handle budgeted MIPS by design. While simple and intuitive, Greedy-MIPS yields surprisingly superior performance compared to state-of-the-art approaches. As a specific example, on a candidate set containing half a million vectors of dimension 200, Greedy-MIPS runs 200x faster than the naive approach while yielding search results where the top-5 precision is greater than 75\%.
DPSCREEN: Dynamic Personalized Screening,Screening is important for the diagnosis and treatment of a wide variety of diseases.  A good screening  policy should be personalized to the disease, to the features of the patient and to the dynamic history of the patient (including the history of screening).  The growth of electronic health records data  has led to the development of many  models to  predict the onset and progression of different diseases. However, there has been limited work to address the personalized screening for these different diseases. In this work, we develop the first framework to construct screening policies for a large class of disease models. The disease is modeled as a finite state stochastic process with an absorbing disease state. The patient observes an  external information process (for instance, self-examinations, discovering comorbidities, etc.) which can trigger the patient to arrive at the clinician earlier than scheduled screenings. The clinician carries out the tests; based on the test results and the  external information it schedules the next arrival.  Computing the exactly optimal screening policy that balances the delay in the detection against the frequency of screenings is computationally intractable; this paper provides a computationally tractable construction of an approximately optimal policy.  As an illustration, we make use of a large breast cancer data set.  The constructed policy screens patients more or less often according to their initial risk -- it is personalized to the features of the patient -- and according to the results of previous screens  it is personalized to the  history of the patient. In comparison with existing clinical policies, the constructed policy leads to large reductions (28-68 %) in the number of screens performed while achieving the same expected delays in disease detection.
Deep Multi-task Gaussian Processes for Survival Analysis with Competing Risks,Designing optimal treatment plans for patients with comorbidities requires accurate cause-specific mortality prognosis. Motivated by the recent availability of linked electronic health records, we develop a nonparametric Bayesian model for survival analysis with competing risks, which can be used for jointly assessing a patient's risk of multiple (competing) adverse outcomes. The model views a patient's survival times with respect to the competing risks as the outputs of a deep multi-task Gaussian process (DMGP), the inputs to which are the patients' covariates. Unlike parametric survival analysis methods based on Cox and Weibull models, our model uses DMGPs to capture complex non-linear interactions between the patients' covariates and cause-specific survival times, thereby learning flexible patient-specific and cause-specific survival curves, all in a data-driven fashion without explicit parametric assumptions on the hazard rates. We propose a variational inference algorithm that is capable of learning the model parameters from time-to-event data while handling right censoring. Experiments on synthetic and real data show that our model outperforms the state-of-the-art survival models.
Premise Selection for Theorem Proving by Deep Graph Embedding,We propose a deep learning approach to premise selection: selecting relevant mathematical statements for the automated proof of a given conjecture. We represent a higher-order logic formula as a graph that is invariant to variable renaming, but at the same time fully preserves syntactic and semantic information. We then embed the graph into a continuous vector via a novel embedding method that preserves the information of edge ordering. Our approach achieves the state-of-the-art results on the HolStep dataset, improving the classification accuracy from 83% to 90.3%.
Gradients of Generative Models for Improved Discriminative Analysis of Tandem Mass Spectra,Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) is a high-throughput technology used to identify the proteins in a complex biological sample, such as a drop of blood. A collection of spectra is generated at the output of the process, each spectrum of which is representative of a peptide (protein subsequence) present in the original complex sample. In this work, we leverage the log-likelihood gradients of generative models to improve the identification of such spectra. In particular, we show that the gradient of a recently proposed dynamic Bayesian network (DBN) may be naturally employed by a kernel-based discriminative classifier. The resulting Fisher kernel substantially improves upon recent attempts to combine generative and discriminative models for post-processing analysis, outperforming all other methods on the evaluated datasets. We extend the improved accuracy offered by the Fisher kernel framework to other search algorithms by introducing Theseus, a DBN representating a large number of widely used MS/MS scoring functions. Furthermore, with gradient ascent and max-product inference at hand, we use Theseus to learn model parameters without any supervision. 
Style Transfer from Non-parallel Text by Cross-Alignment,This paper focuses on style transfer on the basis of un-paired text. This is an instance of broader family of problems including machine translation, decipherment, and sentiment modification. The key technical challenge is to separate the content from desired text characteristics such as sentiment. We leverage refined cross-alignment of latent representations, across mono-lingual text corpora with different characteristics. We deliberately modify encoded examples according to their characteristics, requiring the reproduced instances to match, as a population, available examples with the altered characteristics. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the method on three tasks: sentiment modification, decipherment of word substitution cyphers, and recovery of word reodering.
Emergence of Language with Multi-agent Games: Learning to Communicate with Sequences of Symbols,Learning to communicate through interaction, rather than relying on explicit supervision, is often considered a prerequisite for developing a general AI. We study a setting where two agents engage in playing a referential game and, from scratch, develop a communication protocol necessary to succeed in this game. Unlike previous work, we require that messages they exchange, both at train and test time, are in the form of a language (i.e. sequences of discrete symbols). We compare a reinforcement learning approach and one using a differentiable relaxation (straight-through Gumbel-softmax estimator) and observe that the latter is much faster to converge and it results in more effective protocols. Interestingly, we also observe that the protocol we induce by optimizing the communication success  exhibits a degree of compositionality and variability (i.e. the same information can be phrased in different ways), both properties characteristic of natural languages.    As the ultimate goal is to ensure that communication is accomplished in natural language, we also perform experiments where we inject prior information about natural language into our model  and study properties of the resulting protocol.
ELF: An Extensive, Lightweight and Flexible Research Platform for Real-time Strategy Games,In this paper, we propose ELF, an Extensive, Lightweight and Flexible platform for fundamental reinforcement learning research. Using ELF, we implement a highly customizable real-time strategy (RTS) engine with three game environments (Mini-RTS, Capture the Flag and Tower Defense). Mini-RTS, as a miniature version of StarCraft, captures key game dynamics and runs at 165K frame- per-second (FPS) on a Macbook Pro notebook. When coupled with modern reinforcement learning methods, the system can train a full-game bot against built-in AIs end-to-end in one day with 6 CPUs and 1 GPU. In addition, our platform is flexible in terms of environment-agent communication topologies, choices of RL methods, changes in game parameters, and can host existing C/C++-based game environments like ALE. Using ELF, we thoroughly explore training parameters and show that a network with Leaky ReLU and Batch Normalization coupled with long-horizon training and progressive curriculum beats the rule-based built-in AI more than 70% of the time in the full game of Mini-RTS. Strong performance is also achieved on the other two games. In game replays, we show our agents learn interesting strategies. ELF, along with its RL platform, will be open-sourced.
ExtremeWeather: A large-scale climate dataset for semi-supervised detection, localization, and understanding of extreme weather events,Detection and identification of extreme weather events in large-scale climate simulations is an important problem for risk management, informing governmental policy decisions and advancing our basic understanding of the climate system. Recent work has shown that fully supervised convolutional neural networks (CNNs) can yield acceptable accuracy for classifying well-known types of extreme weather events when large amounts of labeled data are available. However, there are many different types of spatially localized climate patterns of interest (including hurricanes, extra-tropical cyclones, weather fronts, blocking events, etc.) in simulation data for which labels are not available at large scale. Additionally, the labelled data that does exist may be incomplete in various ways (covering only certain years or geographic areas, having false negatives, etc.).  Climate data thus poses a number of interesting machine learning challenges, which we show current techniques are able to cope with to varying degrees of success. We present a multichannel spatiotemporal encoder-decoder CNN architecture for semi-supervised bounding box prediction and exploratory data analysis. In doing so, we propose a novel bounding box prediction method, by combining and improving aspects of state-of-the-art methods.  We demonstrate that our approach is able to leverage temporal information and unlabelled data to improve localization of extreme weather events. Further, we explore the representations learned by our model in order to better understand this important data. We present a dataset, ExtremeWeather, to encourage research on challenging machine learning topics, while facilitating further work in understanding and mitigating the effects of climate change.
Approximation and Convergence Properties of Generative Adversarial Learning,Generative adversarial networks (GAN) approximate a target data distribution by jointly optimizing an objective function through a "two-player game" between a generator and a discriminator.  Despite their empirical success, however, two very basic questions on how well they can approximate the target distribution remain unanswered. First, it is not known how restricting the discriminator family affects the approximation quality. Second, while a number of different objective functions have been proposed, we do not understand when convergence to the global minima of the objective function leads to convergence to the target distribution under various notions of distributional convergence.   In this paper, we address these questions in a broad and unified setting by defining a notion of adversarial divergences that includes a number of recently proposed objective functions. We show that if the objective function is an adversarial divergence with some additional conditions, then using a restricted discriminator family has a moment-matching effect. Additionally, we show that for objective functions that are strict adversarial divergences, convergence in the objective function implies weak convergence, thus generalizing previous results.  
Gradient descent GAN optimization is locally stable,Despite their growing prominence, optimization in generative adversarial   networks (GANs) is still a poorly-understood topic.  In this paper, we analyze   the ``gradient descent'' form of GAN optimization (i.e., the natural   setting where we simultaneously take small gradient steps in both generator   and discriminator parameters).  We show that even though GAN optimization  does \emph{not}   correspond to a convex-concave game even for simple parameterizations, under proper conditions, equilibrium points of this  optimization   procedure are still \emph{locally asymptotically stable} for the traditional   GAN formulation. On the other hand, we show that the recently-proposed Wasserstein GAN   can have non-convergent limit cycles near equilibrium.  Motivated by this stability analysis, we   propose an additional regularization term for gradient descent GAN updates,   which \emph{is} able to guarantee local stability for both the WGAN and for the   traditional GAN, and which also shows practical promise in speeding up   convergence and addressing mode collapse. 
f-GANs in an Information Geometric Nutshell,Nowozin \textit{et al} showed last year how to scale the GANs \textit{principle} to all $f$-divergences. The approach is elegant but falls short of a full description of the supervised game, and says nothing about the key player, the generator: for example, what does the generator actually fit if solving the GAN game means convergence in some space of parameters? How does that hint on the generator's design and compare to the flourishing, essentially experimental literature on the subject?  In this paper, we unveil the broad class of densities for which such convergence happens and show tight connections with the three other key GAN parameters: loss, game and model. In particular, we show that current deep architectures are able to factor a potentially very large number of such densities, hence displaying the power of deep architectures and their adequation to the $f$-GAN game. This result holds provided a sufficient condition on \textit{activation functions} is satisfied ---  and it turns out to be satisfied by most popular choices. The key to our results is a variational generalization of an old theorem that relates the KL divergence between regular exponential families and divergences between their natural parameters. We complete this picture with additional results and experimental insights on how these results may be used to ground further improvements of GAN architectures.
The Numerics of GANs,In this paper, we analyze the numerics of common algorithms for training Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). Using the formalism of smooth two-player games we analyze the associated gradient vector field of GAN training objectives. Our findings suggest that the convergence of current algorithms suffers due to two factors: i) presence of eigenvalues of the Jacobian of the gradient vector field with zero real-part, and ii) eigenvalues with big imaginary part. Using these findings, we design a new algorithm that overcomes some of these limitations and has better convergence properties. Experimentally, we demonstrate its superiority on training common GAN architectures and show convergence on GAN architectures that are known to be notoriously hard to train.
Generalizing GANs: A Turing Perspective,Recently, a new class of machine learning algorithms has emerged, where models and discriminators are generated in a competitive setting. The most prominent example is Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). In this paper we examine how these algorithms relate to the famous Turing test, and derive what - from a Turing perspective - can be considered their defining features. Based on these features, we outline directions for generalizing GANs - resulting in the family of algorithms referred to as Turing Learning. One such direction is to allow the discriminators to interact with the processes from which the data samples are obtained, making them "interrogators", as in the Turing test. We validate this idea using two case studies. In the first case study, a computer infers the behavior of an agent while controlling its environment. In the second case study, a robot infers its own sensor configuration while controlling its movements. The results confirm that by allowing discriminators to interrogate, the accuracy of models is improved.
Dualing GANs,Generative adversarial nets (GANs) are a promising technique for modeling a distribution from samples. It is however well known that GAN training suffers from instability due to the nature of its maximin formulation. In this paper, we explore ways to tackle the instability problem by dualizing the discriminator. We start from linear discriminators in which case conjugate duality provides a mechanism to reformulate the maximin objective into a maximization problem, such that both the generator and the discriminator of this dualing GAN act in concert. We then demonstrate how to extend this intuition to non-linear formulations. For GANs with linear discriminators our approach is able to remove the instability in training, while for GANs with nonlinear discriminators our approach provides an alternative to the commonly used GAN training algorithm.
Fisher GAN,Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are powerful models for learning complex distributions. Stable training of GANs has been addressed in many recent works which explore different metrics between distributions. In this paper we introduce Fisher GAN that fits within the Integral Probability Metrics (IPM) framework for  training GANs. Fisher GAN defines a data dependent constraint on the second order moments of the critic. We show in this paper that Fisher GAN allows for stable and time efficient  training that does not compromise the capacity of the critic, and does not need data independent constraints such as weight clipping. We analyze our Fisher IPM theoretically and provide an algorithm based on Augmented Lagrangian for Fisher GAN. We validate our claims on both image sample generation and semi-supervised classification using Fisher GAN. 
Learning to Pivot with Adversarial Networks,Several techniques for domain adaptation have been proposed to account for differences in the distribution of the data used for training and testing. The majority of this work focuses on a binary domain label. Similar problems occur in a scientific context where there may be a continuous family of plausible data generation processes associated to the presence of systematic uncertainties. Robust inference is possible if it is based on a pivot -- a quantity whose distribution does not depend on the unknown values of the nuisance parameters that parametrize this family of data generation processes. In this work,  we introduce and derive theoretical results for a training procedure based on adversarial networks for enforcing the pivotal property (or, equivalently, fairness with respect to continuous attributes) on a predictive model. The method includes a hyperparameter to control the trade-off between accuracy and robustness. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach with a toy example and examples from particle physics.
Improved Training of Wasserstein GANs,Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are powerful generative models, but suffer from training instability. The recently proposed Wasserstein GAN (WGAN) makes significant progress toward stable training of GANs, but can still generate low-quality samples or fail to converge in some settings. We find that these training failures are often due to the use of weight clipping in WGAN to enforce a Lipschitz constraint on the critic, which can lead to pathological behavior. We propose an alternative method for enforcing the Lipschitz constraint: instead of clipping weights, penalize the norm of the gradient of the critic with respect to its input. Our proposed method converges faster and generates higher-quality samples than WGAN with weight clipping. Finally, our method enables very stable GAN training: for the first time, we can train a wide variety of GAN architectures with almost no hyperparameter tuning, including 101-layer ResNets and language models over discrete data. We further demonstrate state of the art inception scores on CIFAR-10, and provide samples on higher resolution datasets.
MMD GAN: Towards Deeper Understanding of Moment Matching Network,Generative moment matching network (GMMN) is a deep generative model that differs from Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) by replacing the discriminator in GAN with a two-sample test based on kernel maximum mean discrepancy (MMD). Although some theoretical guarantees of MMD have been studied, the empirical performance of GMMN is still not as competitive as that of GAN on challenging and large benchmark datasets. The computational efficiency of GMMN is also less desirable in comparison with GAN, partially due to its requirement for a rather large batch size during the training. In this paper, we propose to improve both the model expressiveness of GMMN and its computational efficiency by introducing {\it adversarial kernel learning} techniques, as the replacement of a fixed Gaussian kernel in the original GMMN. The new approach combines the key ideas in both GMMN and GAN, hence we name it MMD-GAN. The new distance measure in MMD-GAN is a meaningful loss that enjoys the advantage of weak$^*$ topology and can be optimized via gradient descent with relatively small batch sizes. In our evaluation on multiple benchmark datasets, including MNIST, CIFAR-10, CelebA and LSUN, the performance of MMD-GAN significantly outperforms GMMN, and is competitive with other representative GAN works.
Two Time-Scale Update Rule for Generative Adversarial Nets,Generative adversarial networks (GANs) excel in generating images with complex generative models for which maximum likelihood is infeasible. However training GANs is still not proved to converge. We propose a two time-scale update rule (TTUR) for training GANs with different learning rates for the discriminator and the generator. GANs trained with TTUR can be proved to converge under mild assumptions. The TTUR convergence carries over to the Adam stochastic optimiza-tion, which can be described by a second order differential equation. Experiments show that TTUR improves learning for original GANs, Wasserstein GANs, deep convolutional GANs,and boundary equilibrium GANs. TTUR is compared to conventional GAN training on MNIST, CelebA, Billion Word Benchmark, and LSUN bedrooms. TTUR outperforms conventional GAN training both in learning time and performance. time and performance.
VEEGAN: Reducing Mode Collapse in GANs using Implicit Variational Learning,Deep generative models provide powerful tools for distributions over complicated manifolds, such as those of natural images.  But many of these methods, including generative adversarial networks (GANs), can be difficult to train, in part because they are prone to mode collapse, which means that they characterize only a few modes of the true distribution.  To address this, we introduce VEEGAN, which features a reconstructor network, reversing the action of the generator by mapping from data to noise.  Our training objective retains the original asymptotic consistency guarantee of GANs, and can be interpreted as a novel autoencoder loss over the noise.  In sharp contrast to a traditional autoencoder over data points, VEEGAN does not require specifying a loss function over the data, but rather only over the representations, which are standard normal by assumption.  On an extensive set of synthetic and real world image datasets, VEEGAN indeed resists mode collapsing to a far greater extent than other recent GAN variants, and produces more realistic samples.
Improved Semi-supervised Learning with GANs using Manifold Invariances,Semi-supervised learning methods using Generative adversarial networks (GANs) have shown promising empirical success recently. Most of these methods use a shared discriminator/classifier which discriminates real examples from fake and also predicts the class label. Motivated by the ability of GANs to capture the data manifold well, we propose to estimate the tangent space to the data manifold using GANs and use it to inject invariances into the classifier. In the process, we propose improvements over existing methods for learning the inverse mapping (i.e., the encoder) \cite{donahue2016adversarial} which greatly improve in terms of semantic similarity of reconstructed sample to the input sample. We experiment with SVHN and CIFAR-10 for semi-supervised learning, obtaining significant improvements over baselines, particularly in the cases when the number of labeled examples is low. We also provide insights into how fake examples influence the semi-supervised learning procedure. 
Good Semi-supervised Learning That Requires a Bad GAN,Semi-supervised learning methods based on generative adversarial networks (GANs) obtained strong empirical results, but it is not clear 1) how the discriminator benefits from joint training with a generator, and 2) why good semi-supervised classification performance and a good generator cannot be obtained at the same time. Theoretically we show that given the discriminator objective, good semi-supervised learning indeed requires a bad generator, and propose the definition of a preferred generator. Empirically, we derive a novel formulation based on our analysis that substantially improves over feature matching GANs, obtaining state-of-the-art results on multiple benchmark datasets.
Bayesian GANs,Generative adversarial networks (GANs) can implicitly learn rich distributions over images, audio, and data which are hard to model with an explicit likelihood.  We present a practical Bayesian formulation for unsupervised and semi-supervised learning with GANs.  We use stochastic gradient Hamiltonian Monte Carlo to marginalize the weights of generator and discriminator networks.  The resulting approach is straightforward and obtains good performance without any standard interventions such as feature matching, or mini-batch discrimination.  By exploring an expressive posterior over the parameters of the generator, the Bayesian GAN avoids mode-collapse, produces interpretable candidate samples with notable variability, and in particular provides state-of-the-art quantitative results for semi-supervised learning on benchmarks including SVHN, CelebA, and CIFAR-10, outperforming DCGAN, Wasserstein GANs, and DCGAN ensembles. 
Dual Discriminator Generative Adversarial Nets,We propose in this paper a novel approach to tackle the problem of mode collapse encountered in generative adversarial network (GAN). Our idea is intuitive but proven to be very effective, especially in addressing some key limitations of GAN. In essence, it combines the Kullback-Leibler (KL) and reverse KL divergences into a unified objective function, thus it exploits the complementary statistical properties from these divergences to effectively diversify the estimated density in capturing multi-modes. We term our method dual discriminator generative adversarial nets (D2GAN) which, unlike GAN, has two discriminators; and together with a generator, it also has the analogy of a minimax game, wherein a discriminator rewards high scores for samples from data distribution whilst another discriminator, conversely, favoring data from the generator, and the generator produces data to fool both two discriminators. We develop theoretical analysis to show that, given the maximal discriminators, optimizing the generator of D2GAN reduces to minimizing both KL and reverse KL divergences between data distribution and the distribution induced from the data generated by the generator, hence effectively avoiding the mode collapsing problem. We conduct extensive experiments on synthetic and real-world large-scale datasets (MNIST, CIFAR-10, STL-10, ImageNet), where we have made our best effort to compare our D2GAN with the latest state-of-the-art GAN's variants in comprehensive qualitative and quantitative evaluations. The experimental results demonstrate the competitive and superior performance of our approach in generating good quality and diverse samples over baselines, and the capability of our method to scale up to ImageNet database.
Towards Understanding Adversarial Learning for Joint Distribution Matching,We investigate the non-identifiability issues associated with bidirectional adversarial training for joint distribution matching. Within a framework of conditional entropy, we propose both adversarial and non-adversarial approaches to learn desirable matched joint distributions for unsupervised and supervised tasks. We unify a broad family of adversarial models as joint distribution matching problems. Our approach stabilizes learning of unsupervised bidirectional adversarial learning methods. Further, we introduce an extension for semi-supervised learning tasks. Theoretical results are validated in synthetic data and real-world applications. 
Triple Generative Adversarial Nets,Generative Adversarial Nets (GANs) have shown promise in image generation and semi-supervised learning (SSL). However, existing GANs in SSL have two problems: (1) the generator and discriminator may compete in learning; and (2) the generator cannot generate images in a specific class. The problems essentially arise from the two-player formulation, where a single discriminator shares incompatible roles of identifying fake samples and predicting labels and it only estimates the data without considering labels. We address the problems by presenting triple generative adversarial net (Triple-GAN), a flexible game-theoretical framework for classification and class-conditional generation in SSL. Triple-GAN consists of three players---a generator, a discriminator and a classifier, where the generator and classifier characterize the conditional distributions between images and labels, and the discriminator solely focuses on identifying fake image-label pairs. We design compatible utilities to ensure that the distributions characterized by the classifier and generator both concentrate to the data distribution. Our results on various datasets demonstrate that Triple-GAN as a unified model can simultaneously (1) achieve state-of-the-art classification results among deep generative models, and (2) disentangle the classes and styles and transfer smoothly on the data level via interpolation in the latent space class-conditionally.
Triangle Generative Adversarial Networks,A Triangle Generative Adversarial Network ($\Delta$-GAN) is developed for semi-supervised cross-domain joint distribution matching, where the training data consists of samples from each domain, and supervision of domain correspondence is provided by only a few paired samples. $\Delta$-GAN consists of four neural networks, two generators and two discriminators. The generators are designed to learn the two-way conditional distributions between the two domains, while the discriminators implicitly define a ternary discriminative function, which is trained to distinguish real data pairs and two kinds of fake data pairs. The generators and discriminators are trained together using adversarial learning. Under mild assumptions, in theory the joint distributions characterized by the two generators concentrate to the data distribution.  In experiments, three different kinds of domain pairs are considered, image-label, image-image and image-attribute pairs. Experiments on semi-supervised image classification, image-to-image translation and attribute-based image generation demonstrate the superiority of the proposed approach.
Structured Generative Adversarial Networks,We study the problem of conditional generative modeling based on designated semantics or structures. Existing models that build conditional generators either require massive labeled instances as supervision or are unable to accurately control the semantics of generated samples. We propose structured generative adversarial networks (SGANs) for semi-supervised conditional generative modeling. SGAN assumes the data x is generated conditioned on two independent latent variables: y that encodes the designated semantic, and z that contains other factors of variation. To ensure disentangled semantics in y and z, SGAN builds two inference networks I, C to map x back to the latent space I: x -> z, C: x -> y, and enforces G to generate samples that when being mapped back to hidden space using C (or I), the inferred latent code and the generator condition are always matched, regardless of the variations of the other variable z (or y). Training SGAN involves solving two adversarial games that have their equilibrium concentrating at the true joint data distributions p(x, z) and p(x, y), avoiding distributing the probability mass diffusely over data space that MLE-based methods may suffer. We assess SGAN by evaluating its trained networks, and its performance on downstream tasks. We show that SGAN delivers a highly controllable generator, and disentangled representations; it also establishes start-of-the-art results across multiple dataset when applied for semi-supervised image classification (1.27, 5.73, 17.26 errors on MNIST, SVHN and CIFAR10 using 50, 1000 and 4000 labels, respectively). Benefiting from the separate modeling of y and z, SGAN can generate images with high visual quality and strictly follows the designated semantics, and can be extended to a wide spectrum of applications, such as style transfer.
PixelGAN Autoencoders,In this paper, we describe the "PixelGAN autoencoder", a generative autoencoder in which the generative path is a convolutional autoregressive neural network on pixels (PixelCNN) that is conditioned on a latent code, and the recognition path uses a generative adversarial network (GAN) to impose a prior distribution on the latent code. We show that different priors result in different decompositions of information between the latent code and the autoregressive decoder. For example, by imposing a Gaussian distribution as the prior, we can achieve a global vs. local decomposition, or by imposing a categorical distribution as the prior, we can disentangle the style and content information of images in an unsupervised fashion. We further show how the PixelGAN autoencoder with a categorical prior can be directly used in semi-supervised settings and achieve competitive semi-supervised classification results on the MNIST, SVHN and NORB datasets.
Learning to Compose Domain-Specific Transformations for Data Augmentation,Data augmentation is a ubiquitous technique for increasing the size of labeled training sets by leveraging task-specific data transformations that preserve class labels. While it is often easy for domain experts to specify individual transformations, constructing and tuning the more sophisticated compositions typically needed to achieve state-of-the-art results is a time-consuming manual task in practice. We propose a method for automating this process by learning a generative sequence model over user-specified transformation functions using a generative adversarial approach. Our method can make use of arbitrary, non-deterministic transformation functions, is robust to misspecified user input, and is trained on unlabeled data. The learned transformation model can then be used to perform data augmentation for any end discriminative model. In our experiments, we show the efficacy of our approach on both image and text datasets, achieving improvements of 3.8 accuracy points on CIFAR-10, 1.4 F1 points on the ACE relation extraction task, and 3.4 accuracy points when using domain-specific transformation operations on a medical imaging dataset as compared to standard heuristic augmentation approaches.
Unsupervised Image-to-Image Translation Networks,Most of the existing image-to-image translation frameworks---mapping an image in one domain to a corresponding image in another---are based on supervised learning, i.e., pairs of corresponding images in two domains are required for learning the translation function. This largely limits their applications, because capturing corresponding images in two different domains is often a difficult task. To address the issue, we propose the UNsupervised Image-to-image Translation (UNIT) framework. The proposed framework is based on variational autoencoders and generative adversarial networks. It can learn the translation function without any corresponding images. We show this  learning capability is enabled by combining a weight-sharing constraint and an adversarial objective and verify the effectiveness of the proposed framework through extensive experiment results.
Adversarial Invariant Feature Learning,Learning meaningful representations that maintain the content necessary for a particular task while filtering away detrimental variations is a problem of great interest in machine learning. In this paper, we tackle the problem of learning representations invariant to a specific factor or trait of data, leading to better generalization. The representation learning process is formulated as an adversarial minimax game. We analyze the optimal equilibrium of such a game. On three benchmark tasks, namely fair classifications that are bias-free, language-independent generation, and lighting-independent image classification, we show that the proposed framework induces an invariant representation, and leads to better generalization evidenced by the improved test performance.
Adversarial Ranking for Language Generation,Generative adversarial networks (GANs) have great successes on synthesizing data. However, the existing GANs restrict the discriminator to be a binary classifier, and thus limit their learning capacity for tasks that need to synthesize output with rich structures such as natural language descriptions. In this paper, we propose a novel generative adversarial network, RankGAN, for generating high-quality language descriptions. Rather than train the discriminator to learn and assign absolute binary predicate for individual data sample, the proposed RankGAN is able to analyze and rank a collection of human-written and machine-written sentences by giving a reference group. By viewing a set of data samples collectively and evaluating their quality through relative ranking scores, the discriminator is able to make better assessment which in turn helps to learn a better generator. The proposed RankGAN is optimized through the policy gradient technique. Experimental results on multiple public datasets clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Efficient Computation of Moments in Sum-Product Networks,Bayesian online algorithms for Sum-Product Networks (SPNs) need to update their posterior distribution after seeing one single additional instance. To do so, they must compute moments of the model parameters under this distribution. The best existing method for computing such moments scales quadratically in the size of the SPN, although it scales linearly for trees. This unfortunate scaling makes Bayesian online algorithms prohibitively expensive, except for small or tree-structured SPNs. We propose a linear-time algorithm that works even when the SPN is a general directed acyclic graph (DAG). Our algorithm significantly broadens the applicability of Bayesian online algorithms for SPNs. We achieve our goal by reducing the moment computation problem to a joint inference problem in SPNs and by taking advantage of a special structure of the updated posterior distribution: it is a multilinear polynomial with exponentially many positive monomials, and we can evaluate moments by differentiation. We demonstrate the usefulness of our linear time moment computation algorithm by applying it to develop a linear time assume density filter (ADF) for SPNs.  
Attention is All you Need,The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent orconvolutional neural networks in an encoder and decoder configuration. The best performing such models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attentionm echanisms.  We propose a novel, simple network architecture based solely onan attention mechanism, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely.Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superiorin quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less timeto train. Our single model with 165 million parameters, achieves 27.5 BLEU onEnglish-to-German translation, improving over the existing best ensemble result by over 1 BLEU. On English-to-French translation, we outperform the previoussingle state-of-the-art with model by 0.7 BLEU, achieving a BLEU score of 41.1.
Masked Autoregressive Flow for Density Estimation,Autoregressive models are among the best performing neural density estimators. We describe an approach for increasing the flexibility of an autoregressive model, based on modelling the random numbers that the model uses internally when generating data. By constructing a stack of autoregressive models, each modelling the random numbers of the next model in the stack, we obtain a type of normalizing flow suitable for density estimation, which we call Masked Autoregressive Flow. This type of flow is closely related to Inverse Autoregressive Flow and is a generalization of Real NVP. Masked Autoregressive Flow achieves state-of-the-art performance in a range of general-purpose density estimation tasks.
Variational Walkback: Learning a Transition Operator as a Stochastic Recurrent Net,We propose a novel method to {\it directly} learn a stochastic transition operator whose repeated application provides generated samples. Traditional undirected graphical models approach this problem indirectly by learning a Markov chain model whose stationary distribution obeys detailed balance with respect to a parameterized energy function. The energy function is then modified so the model and data distributions match, with no guarantee on the number of steps required for the Markov chain to converge. Moreover, the detailed balance condition is highly restrictive: energy based models corresponding to neural networks must have symmetric weights, unlike biological neural circuits. In contrast, we develop a method for directly learning arbitrarily parameterized transition operators capable of expressing non-equilibrium stationary distributions that violate detailed balance, thereby enabling us to learn more biologically plausible asymmetric neural networks and more general non-energy based dynamical systems. Our training objective, which we derive via principled variational methods, encourages the transition operator to "walk back" (prefer to revert its steps) in multi-step trajectories that start at data-points, as quickly as possible back to the original data points. We present a series of experimental results illustrating the soundness of the proposed approach, Variational Walkback (VW), on the MNIST, CIFAR-10, SVHN and CelebA datasets, demonstrating superior samples compared to earlier attempts to learn a transition operator. We also show that although each rapid training trajectory is limited to a finite but variable number of steps, our transition operator continues to generate good samples well past the length of such trajectories, thereby demonstrating the match of its non-equilibrium stationary distribution to the data distribution.
TernGrad: Ternary Gradients to Reduce Communication in Distributed Deep Learning,High network communication cost for synchronizing gradients and parameters is the well-known bottleneck of distributed training. In this work, we propose TernGrad that uses ternary gradients to accelerate distributed deep learning in data parallelism. Our approach requires only three numerical levels {-1,0,1} which can aggressively reduce the communication time. We mathematically prove the convergence of TernGrad under the assumption of a bound on gradients. Guided by the bound, we propose layer-wise ternarizing and gradient clipping to improve its convergence. Our experiments show that applying TernGrad on AlexNet doesnt incur any accuracy loss and can even improve accuracy. The accuracy loss of GoogLeNet induced by TernGrad is less than 2% on average. Finally, a performance model is proposed to study the scalability of TernGrad. Experiments show significant speed gains for various deep neural networks.
End-to-end Differentiable Proving,We introduce deep neural networks for end-to-end differentiable theorem proving that operate on dense vector representations of symbols.  These neural networks are recursively constructed by following the backward chaining algorithm as used in Prolog.  Specifically, we replace symbolic unification with a differentiable computation on vector representations of symbols using a radial basis function kernel, thereby combining symbolic reasoning with learning subsymbolic vector representations.  The resulting neural network can be trained to infer facts from a given incomplete knowledge base using gradient descent.  By doing so, it learns to (i) place representations of similar symbols in close proximity in a vector space, (ii) make use of such similarities to prove facts, (iii) induce logical rules, and (iv) it can use provided and induced logical rules for complex multi-hop reasoning.  On four benchmark knowledge bases we demonstrate that this architecture outperforms ComplEx, a state-of-the-art neural link prediction model, while at the same time inducing interpretable function-free first-order logic rules.
A simple neural network module for relational reasoning,Relational reasoning is a central component of generally intelligent behavior, but has proven difficult for neural networks to learn. In this paper we describe how to use Relation Networks (RNs) as a simple plug-and-play module to solve problems that fundamentally hinge on relational reasoning. We tested RN-augmented networks on three tasks: visual question answering using a challenging dataset called CLEVR, on which we achieve state-of-the-art, super-human performance; text-based question answering using the bAbI suite of tasks; and complex reasoning about dynamical physical systems. Then, using a curated dataset called Sort-of-CLEVR we show that powerful convolutional networks do not have a general capacity to solve relational questions, but can gain this capacity when augmented with RNs. Thus, by simply augmenting convolutions, LSTMs, and MLPs with RNs, we can remove computational burden from network components that are not well-suited to handle relational reasoning, reduce overall network complexity, and gain a general ability to reason about the relations between entities and their properties.
Dual Path Networks,In this work, we present a simple, highly efficient and modularized Dual Path Network (DPN) for image classification which presents a new topology of connection paths internally. By revealing the equivalence of the state-of-the-art Residual Network (ResNet) and Densely Convolutional Network (DenseNet) within the HORNN framework, we find that ResNet enables feature re-usage while DenseNet enables new features exploration which are both important for learning good representations. To enjoy the benefits from both path topologies, our proposed Dual Path Network shares common features while maintaining the flexibility to explore new features through dual path architectures. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets, ImagNet-1k, Places365 and PASCAL VOC, clearly demonstrate superior performance of the proposed DPN over state-of-the-arts. In particular, on the ImagNet-1k dataset, a shallow DPN surpasses the best ResNeXt-101(64x4d) with 26% smaller model size, 25% less computational cost and 8% lower memory consumption, and a deeper DPN achieves the state-of-the-art single model performance with more than 3 times faster training speed. Experiments on the Places365 large-scale scene dataset, PASCAL VOC detection dataset, and PASCAL VOC segmentation dataset also demonstrate its consistently better performance than DenseNet, ResNet and the latest ResNeXt model over various applications. 
Spherical convolutions and their application in molecular modelling,Convolutional neural networks are increasingly used outside the domain of image analysis, in particular in various areas of the Natural Sciences concerned with spatial data. Such networks often work out-of-the box, and in some cases entire model architectures from image analysis can be carried over to other problem domains almost unaltered. Unfortunately, this convenience does not trivially extend to data in non-euclidean spaces, such as spherical data. In this paper, we address the challenges that arise in this setting, in particular the lack of translational equivariance associated with using a grid based on uniform spacing in spherical coordinates. We present a definition of a spherical convolution that overcomes these issues, and extend our discussion to include scenarios of spherical volumes, with several strategies for parameterizing the radial dimension. As a proof of concept, we conclude with an assessment of the performance of spherical convolutions in the context of molecular modelling, by considering structural environments within proteins.  We show that the model is capable of learning non-trivial functions in these molecular environments, and despite the lack of any domain specific feature-engineering, we demonstrate performance comparable to state-of-the-art methods in the field, which build on decades of domain-specific knowledge.
Deep Sets,We study the problem of designing objective models for machine learning tasks defined on finite \emph{sets}. In contrast to the traditional approach of operating on fixed dimensional vectors, we consider objective functions defined on sets and are invariant to permutations. Such problems are widespread, ranging from the estimation of population statistics, to anomaly detection in piezometer data of embankment dams, to cosmology. Our main theorem characterizes the permutation invariant objective functions and provides a family of functions to which any permutation invariant objective function must belong. This family of functions has a special structure which enables us to design a deep network architecture that can operate on sets and which can be deployed on a variety of scenarios including both unsupervised and supervised learning tasks. We demonstrate the applicability of our method on population statistic estimation, point cloud classification, set expansion, and outlier detection.
Simple and Scalable Predictive Uncertainty Estimation using Deep Ensembles,Deep neural networks are powerful black box predictors that have recently achieved impressive performance on a wide spectrum of tasks. Quantifying predictive uncertainty in neural networks is a challenging and yet unsolved problem.  Bayesian neural networks, which learn a distribution over weights, are currently the state-of-the-art for estimating predictive uncertainty; however these require significant modifications to the training procedure and are computationally expensive compared to standard (non-Bayesian)  neural networks.  We propose an alternative to Bayesian neural networks, that is simple to implement, readily parallelisable and yields high quality predictive uncertainty estimates. Through a series of experiments on classification and regression benchmarks, we demonstrate that our method produces well-calibrated uncertainty estimates which are as good or better than approximate Bayesian neural networks. To assess robustness to dataset shift, we evaluate the predictive uncertainty on test examples from known and unknown distributions, and show that our method is able to express higher uncertainty on unseen data.  We demonstrate the scalability of our method by evaluating predictive uncertainty estimates on ImageNet. 
Self-Normalizing Neural Networks,Deep Learning has revolutionized vision via convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and natural language processing via recurrent neural networks (RNNs). However, success stories of Deep Learning with standard feed-forward neural networks (FNNs) are rare. FNNs that perform well are typically shallow and, therefore cannot exploit many levels of abstract representations. We introduce self-normalizing neural networks (SNNs) to enable high-level abstract representations. While batch normalization requires explicit normalization, neuron activations of SNNs automatically converge towards zero mean and unit variance. The activation function of SNNs are "scaled exponential linear units" (SELUs), which induce self-normalizing properties. Using the Banach fixed-point theorem, we prove that activations close to zero mean and unit variance that are propagated through many network layers will converge towards zero mean and unit variance -- even under the presence of noise and perturbations. This convergence property of SNNs allows to (1) train deep networks with many layers, (2) employ strong regularization, and (3) to make learning highly robust. Furthermore, for activations not close to unit variance, we prove an upper and lower bound on the variance, thus, vanishing and exploding gradients are impossible. We compared SNNs on (a) 121 tasks from the UCI machine learning repository, on (b) drug discovery benchmarks, and on (c) astronomy tasks with standard FNNs and other machine learning methods such as random forests and support vector machines. For FNNs we considered (i) ReLU networks without normalization, (ii) batch normalization, (iii) layer normalization, (iv) weight normalization, (v) highway networks, (vi) residual networks. SNNs significantly outperformed all competing FNN methods at 121 UCI tasks, outperformed all competing methods at the Tox21 dataset, and set a new record at an astronomy data set. The winning SNN architectures are often very deep. 
Batch Renormalization: Towards Reducing Minibatch Dependence in Batch-Normalized Models,Batch Normalization is quite effective at accelerating and improving the training of deep models. However, its effectiveness diminishes when the training minibatches are small, or do not consist of independent samples. We hypothesize that this is due to the dependence of model layer inputs on all the examples in the minibatch, and different activations being produced between training and inference. We propose Batch Renormalization, a simple and effective extension to ensure that the training and inference models generate the same outputs that depend on individual examples rather than the entire minibatch. Models trained with Batch Renormalization perform substantially better than batchnorm when training with small  or non-i.i.d. minibatches. At the same time, Batch Renormalization retains the benefits of batchnorm such as insensitivity to initialization and training efficiency.
Train longer, generalize better: closing the generalization gap in large batch training of neural networks,Background: Deep learning models are typically trained using stochastic gradient descent or one of its variants. These methods update the weights using their gradient, estimated from a small fraction of the training data. It has been observed that when using large batch sizes there is a persistent degradation in generalization performance -  known as the "generalization gap" phenomena. Identifying the origin of this gap and closing it had remained an open problem.  Contributions: We examine the initial high learning rate training phase. We find that the weight distance from its initialization grows logarithmicaly with the number of weight updates. We therefore propose a "random walk on random landscape" statistical model which is known to exhibit similar "ultra-slow" diffusion behavior. Following this hypothesis we conducted experiments to show empirically that the "generalization gap" stems from the relatively small number of updates rather than the batch size, and can be completely eliminated by adapting the training regime used. We further investigate different techniques to train models in the large-batch regime and present a novel algorithm named "Ghost Batch Normalization" which enables significant decrease in the generalization gap without increasing the number of updates. To validate our findings we conduct several additional experiments on MNIST, CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100 and ImageNet. Finally, we reassess common practices and beliefs concerning training of deep models and suggest they may not be optimal to achieve good generalization.
Nonlinear random matrix theory for deep learning,Neural network configurations with random weights play an important role in the analysis of deep learning. They define the initial loss landscape and are closely related to kernel and random feature methods. Despite the fact that these networks are built out of random matrices, the vast and powerful machinery of random matrix theory has so far found limited success in studying them. A main obstacle in this direction is that neural networks are nonlinear, which prevents the straightforward utilization of many of the existing mathematical results. In this work, we open the door for direct applications of random matrix theory to deep learning by demonstrating that the pointwise nonlinearities typically applied in neural networks can be incorporated into a standard method of proof in random matrix theory known as the moments method. The test case for our study is the Gram matrix $Y^TY$, $Y=f(WX)$, where $W$ is a random weight matrix, $X$ is a random data matrix, and $f$ is a pointwise nonlinear activation function. We derive an explicit representation for the trace of the resolvent of this matrix, which defines its limiting spectral distribution. We apply these results to the computation of the asymptotic performance of single-layer random feature methods on a memorization task and to the analysis of the eigenvalues of the data covariance matrix as it propagates through a neural network. As a byproduct of our analysis, we identify an intriguing new class of activation functions with favorable properties.
DisTraL: Robust multitask reinforcement learning,Most deep reinforcement learning algorithms are data inefficient in complex and rich environments, limiting their applicability to many scenarios. One direction for improving data efficiency is multitask learning with shared neural network parameters, where efficiency may be improved through transfer across related tasks. In practice, however,  this is not usually observed, because gradients from different tasks can interfere negatively, making learning unstable and sometimes even less data efficient. Another issue is the different reward schemes between tasks, which can easily lead to one task dominating the learning of a shared model. We propose a new  approach for joint training of multiple tasks, which we refer to as DisTraL (DIStill & TRAnsfer Learning). Instead of sharing parameters between the different workers, we propose to share a ``distilled'' policy that captures common behaviour across tasks. Each worker is trained to solve its own task while constrained to stay close to the shared policy, while the shared policy is trained by distillation to be the centroid of all task policies. Both aspects of the learning process are derived by optimizing a joint objective function. We show that our approach supports efficient transfer on complex 3D environments, outperforming several related methods. Moreover, the proposed learning process is more robust and more stable---attributes that are critical in deep reinforcement learning.
Imagination-Augmented Agents for Deep Reinforcement Learning,We introduce Imagination-Augmented Agents (I2As), a novel architecture for deep reinforcement learning combining model-free and model-based aspects.   In contrast to most existing model-based reinforcement learning and planning methods, which prescribe how a model should be used to arrive at a policy, I2As learn to interpret predictions from a trained environment model to construct implicit plans in arbitrary ways, by using the predictions as additional context in deep policy networks. I2As show improved data efficiency, performance, and robustness to model misspecification compared to several strong baselines.
Second-order Optimization in Deep Reinforcement Learning using Kronecker-factored Approximation,In this work we propose to apply second-order optimization to deep reinforcement learning using a recently proposed Kronecker-factored approximation to the curvature. We extend the framework of natural policy gradient and propose to optimize both the actor and the critic using Kronecker-factored approximate curvature (K-FAC) with trust region,  hence naming our method Actor Critic using Kronecker-factored Trust Region method (ACKTR). We tested our approach across discrete domains in Atari games as well as continuous domains in Mujoco environment. With the proposed methods, we are able to achieve higher rewards and a 2 to 3 fold improvement in sample efficiency. To the best of our knowledge, we are also the first to succeed training several nontrivial tasks in Mujoco environment directly from image (rather than state space) observations.
Learning Combinatorial Optimization Algorithms over Graphs,The design of good heuristics or approximation algorithms for NP-hard combinatorial optimization problems often requires significant specialized knowledge and trial-and-error. Can we automate this challenging, tedious process, and learn the algorithms instead? In many real-world applications, it is typically the case that the same optimization problem is solved again and again on a regular basis, maintaining the same problem structure but differing in the data. This provides an opportunity for learning heuristic algorithms that exploit the structure of such recurring problems.  In this paper, we propose a unique combination of reinforcement learning and graph embedding to address this challenge. The learned greedy policy behaves like a meta-algorithm that incrementally constructs a solution, and the action is determined by the output of a graph embedding network capturing the current state of the solution. We show our framework can be applied to a diverse range of optimization problems over graphs, and learns effective algorithms for the Minimum Vertex Cover, Maximum Cut and Traveling Salesman problems.
Targeting EEG/LFP Synchrony with Neural Nets,We consider the analysis of Electroencephalography (EEG) and Local Field Potential (LFP) datasets, which are ``big'' in terms of the size of recorded data but rarely have sufficient labels required to train complex models (e.g., conventional deep learning methods). Furthermore, in many scientific applications the goal is to be able to understand the underlying features related to the classification, which prohibits the blind application of deep networks.  This motivates the development of a new model based on parameterized convolutional filters guided by previous neuroscience research; the filters learn relevant frequency bands while targeting synchrony, which are frequency-specific power and phase correlations between electrodes. This results in a highly expressive convolutional neural network with only a few hundred parameters, applicable to smaller datasets. The proposed approach is demonstrated to yield competitive (often state-of-the-art) predictive performance during our empirical tests while yielding interpretable features. Further, a Gaussian process adapter is developed to combine analysis over distinct electrode layouts, allowing the joint processing of multiple datasets to address overfitting and improve generalizability. Finally, it is demonstrated that the proposed framework effectively tracks neural dynamics on children in a clinical trial on Autism Spectrum Disorder.
Toward Goal-Driven Neural Network Models for the Rodent Whisker-Trigeminal System,In large part, rodents see the world through their whiskers, a powerful tactile sense enabled by a series of brain areas that form the whisker-trigeminal system. Raw sensory data arrives in the form of mechanical input to the exquisitely sensitive, actively-controllable whisker array, and is processed through a sequence of neural circuits, eventually arriving in cortical regions that communicate with decision making and memory areas. Although a long history of experimental studies has characterized many aspects of these processing stages, the computational operations of the whisker-trigeminal system remain largely unknown. In the present work,  we take a goal-driven deep neural network (DNN) approach to modeling these  computations. First, we construct a biophysically-realistic model of the rat whisker  array. We then generate a large dataset of whisker sweeps across a wide variety  of 3D objects in highly-varying poses, angles, and speeds. Next, we train DNNs  from several distinct architectural families to solve a shape recognition task in  this dataset. Each architectural family represents a structurally-distinct hypothesis  for processing in the whisker-trigeminal system, corresponding to different ways  in which spatial and temporal information can be integrated. We find that most  networks perform poorly on the challenging shape recognition task, but that specific  architectures from several families can achieve reasonable performance levels.  Finally, we show that Representational Dissimilarity Matrices (RDMs), a tool for  comparing population codes between neural systems, can separate these higher  performing networks with data of a type that could plausibly be collected in a  neurophysiological or imaging experiment. Our results are a proof-of-concept that  DNN models of the whisker-trigeminal system are potentially within reach.
Fast amortized inference of neural activity from calcium imaging data with variational autoencoders,Calcium imaging permits optical measurement of neural activity. Since intracellular calcium concentration is an indirect measurement of neural activity, computational tools are necessary to infer the true underlying spiking activity from fluorescence measurements. Bayesian model inversion can be used to solve this problem, but typically requires either computationally expensive MCMC sampling, or faster but approximate maximum-a-posteriori optimization.  Here, we introduce a flexible algorithmic framework for fast, efficient and accurate extraction of neural spikes from imaging data. Using the framework of variational autoencoders, we propose to amortize inference by training a deep neural network to perform model inversion efficiently. The recognition network is trained to produce samples from the posterior distribution over spike trains.  Once trained, performing inference amounts to a fast single forward pass through the network, without the need for iterative optimization or sampling. We show that amortization can be applied flexibly to a wide range of nonlinear generative models and significantly improves upon the state of the art in computation time, while achieving competitive accuracy.  Our framework is also able to represent posterior distributions over spike-trains. We demonstrate the generality of our method by proposing the first probabilistic approach for separating backpropagating action potentials from putative synaptic inputs in calcium imaging of dendritic spines.
Scene Physics Acquisition via Visual De-animation,We introduce a new paradigm for fast and rich physical scene understanding without human annotations. At the core of our system is a physical world representation recovered by a perception module and utilized by physics and graphics engines. During training, the perception module and the generative models learn by visual de-animation --- interpreting and reconstructing the visual information stream. During testing, the system first recovers the physical world state, and then uses the generative models for reasoning and future prediction.  Unlike forward simulation, inverting a physics or graphics engine is a computationally hard problem; we overcome this challenge through the use of a convolutional inversion network. Our system quickly recognizes the physical world state from appearance and motion cues, and has the flexibility to incorporate both differentiable and non-differentiable physics and graphics engines. We evaluate our system on both synthetic and real datasets involving multiple physical scenes, and demonstrate that our system performs well on both physical state estimation and reasoning problems. We further show that the knowledge learned on the synthetic dataset generalizes to constrained real images.
Shape and Material from Sound,What can we infer from hearing an object falling onto the ground? Based on knowledge of the physical world, humans are able to infer rich information from such limited data: rough shape of the object, its material, the height of falling, etc. In this paper, we aim to approximate such competency. We first mimic the human knowledge about the physical world using a fast physics-based generative model. Then, we present an analysis-by-synthesis approach to infer properties of the falling object. We further approximate human past experience by directly mapping audio to object properties using deep learning with self-supervision. We evaluate our method through behavioral studies, where we compare human predictions with ours on inferring object shape, material, and initial height of falling. Results show that our method achieves near-human performance, without any annotations.
Deep Networks for Decoding Natural Images from Retinal Signals,Decoding sensory stimuli from neural signals can be used to reveal how we sense our physical environment, and is critical for the design of brain-machine interfaces.  However, existing linear techniques for neural decoding may not fully reveal or exploit the fidelity of  the neural signal. Here we develop a new approximate Bayesian method for decoding natural images from the spiking activity of  populations of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). We sidestep known computational challenges with Bayesian inference by exploiting amortized inference via artificial neural networks developed for computer vision, which enables nonlinear decoding that incorporates natural scene statistics implicitly. We use a decoder architecture that first linearly reconstructs an image from RGC spikes, then applies a convolutional autoencoder to enhance the image. The resulting decoder, trained on natural images, significantly outperforms state-of-the-art linear decoding, as well as simple point-wise nonlinear decoding. Additionally, the decoder trained on natural images performs nearly as accurately on a subset of natural stimuli (faces)  as a decoder trained specifically for the subset, a feature not observed with a linear decoder. These results provide a tool for the assessment and optimization of retinal prosthesis technologies, and reveal that the neural output of the retina may provide a more accurate representation of the visual scene than previously appreciated.
Quantifying how much sensory information in a neural code is relevant for behavior,Determining how much of the sensory information carried by a neural code contributes to behavioral performance is key to understand sensory function and neural information flow. However, there are as yet no analytical tools to compute this information that lies at the intersection between sensory coding and behavioral readout. Here we develop a novel measure, termed the information-theoretic intersection information $\III(R)$, that quantifies how much sensory information carried by a neural response $R$ is also used for behavior during perceptual discrimination tasks. Building on the Partial Information Decomposition framework, we define $\III(R)$ as the mutual information between the presented stimulus $S$ and the consequent behavioral choice $C$ that can be extracted from $R$. We compute $\III(R)$ in the analysis of two experimental cortical datasets, to show how this measure can be used to compare quantitatively the contributions of spike timing and spike rates to task performance, and to identify brain areas or neural populations that specifically transform sensory information into choice. 
Model-based Bayesian inference of neural activity and connectivity from all-optical interrogation of a neural circuit,Population activity measurement by calcium imaging can be combined with cellular resolution optogenetic activity perturbations to enable the mapping of neural connectivity in vivo. This requires accurate inference of perturbed and unperturbed neural activity from calcium imaging measurements, which are noisy and indirect, and can also be contaminated by photostimulation artifacts. We have developed a new fully Bayesian approach to jointly inferring spiking activity and neural connectivity from in vivo all-optical perturbation experiments. In contrast to standard approaches that perform spike inference and analysis in two separate maximum-likelihood phases, our joint model is able to propagate uncertainty in spike inference to the inference of connectivity and vice versa. We use the framework of variational autoencoders to model spiking activity using discrete latent variables, low-dimensional latent common input, and sparse spike-and-slab generalized linear coupling between neurons. Additionally, we model two properties of the optogenetic perturbation: off-target photostimulation and photostimulation transients. Our joint model includes at least two sets of discrete random variables; to avoid the dramatic slowdown typically caused by being unable to differentiate such variables, we introduce two strategies that have not, to our knowledge, been used with variational autoencoders. Using this model, we were able to fit models on 30 minutes of data in just 10 minutes. We performed an all-optical circuit mapping experiment in primary visual cortex of the awake mouse, and use our approach to predict neural connectivity between excitatory neurons in layer 2/3. Predicted connectivity is sparse and consistent with known correlations with stimulus tuning, spontaneous correlation and distance.
Deep Hyperalignment,This paper proposes Deep Hyperalignment (DHA) as a regularized, deep extension, scalable Hyperalignment (HA) method, which is well-suited for applying functional alignment to fMRI datasets with nonlinearity, high-dimensionality (broad ROI), and a large number of subjects. Unlink previous methods, DHA is not limited by a restricted fixed kernel function. Further, it uses a parametric approach, rank-m Singular Value Decomposition (SVD), and stochastic gradient descent for optimization. Consequently, the time complexity of DHA fairly scales with data size and the training data is not referenced when DHA computes the functional alignment for a new subject. Experimental studies on multi-subject fMRI analysis confirm that the DHA method achieves superior performance to other state-of-the-art HA algorithms.
Tensor encoding and decomposition of brain connectomes with application to tractography evaluation,Recently, linear formulations and convex optimization methods have been proposed to predict diffusion-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (dMRI) data given estimates of brain connections generated using tractography algorithms. The size of the linear models comprising such methods grows with both dMRI data and connectome resolution, and can become very large when applied to modern data. In this paper, we introduce a method to encode dMRI signals and large connectomes, i.e., those that range from hundreds of thousands to millions of fascicles (bundles of neuronal axons), by using a sparse tensor decomposition. We show that this tensor decomposition accurately approximates the Linear Fascicle Evaluation (LiFE) model, one of the recently developed linear models. We provide a theoretical analysis of the accuracy of the sparse decomposed model, LiFE_SD, and demonstrate that it can reduce the size of the model significantly. Also, we develop algorithms to implement the optimization solver using the tensor representation in an efficient way.
Online Dynamic Programming,We consider the problem of repeatedly solving a variant of the same dynamic programming problem in successive trials. An instance of the type of problems we consider is to find the optimal binary search tree. At the beginning of each trial, the learner probabilistically chooses a tree with the n keys at the internal nodes and the n + 1 gaps between keys at the leaves. It is then told the frequencies of the keys and gaps and is charged by the average search cost for the chosen tree. The problem is online because the frequencies can change between trials. The goal is to develop algorithms with the property that their total average search cost (loss) in all trials is close to the total loss of the best tree chosen in hind sight for all trials. The challenge, of course, is that the algorithm has to deal with exponential number of trees. We develop a methodology for tackling such problems for a wide class of dynamic programming algorithms. Our framework allows us to extend online learning algorithms like Hedge and Component Hedge to a significantly wider class of combinatorial objects than was possible before.
Unsupervised Learning of Disentangled Representations from Video,We present a new model DRNET that learns disentangled image representations from video. Our approach leverages the temporal coherence of video and a novel adversarial loss to learn a representation that factorizes each frame into a stationary part and a temporally varying  component. The disentangled representation can be used for a range of tasks. For example, applying a standard LSTM to the time-vary components enables prediction of future frames. We evaluating our approach on a range of synthetic and real videos. For the latter, we demonstrate the ability to coherently generate up to several hundred steps into the future.
Interactive Submodular Bandit,In many machine learning applications, submodular functions have been used as a model for evaluating the utility or payoff of a set, e.g., news items to recommend, sensors to deploy in a terrain, nodes to influence in a social network, to name a few. At the heart of all these applications is the assumption that the underlying utility/payoff function is known a priori, hence maximizing it is in principle possi ble. In many real life situations, however, the utility function is not fully known in advance and can only be estimated via interactions. For instance, whether a user likes a movie or not can be reliably evaluated only after it was shown to her. Or, the range of influence of a user in a social network can be estimated only after she is selected to advertise the product. We model such problems as an interactive submodular bandit optimization, where in each round we receive a context (e.g., previously selected movies) and have to choose an action (e.g., propose a new movie). We then receive a noisy feedback about the utility of the action (e.g., ratings) which we model as a submodular function over the context-action space. We develop SM-UCB that efficiently trades off exploration (collecting more data) and exploration (proposing a good action given gathered data) and achieves a $O(\sqrt{T})$ regret bound after $T$ rounds of interaction. More specifically, given a bounded-RKHS norm kernel over the context-action-payoff space that governs the smoothness of the utility function, SM-UCB keeps an upper-confidence bound on the payoff function that allows it to asymptotically achieve no-regret. Finally, we evaluate our results on four concrete applications, including movie recommenda tion (on the MovieLense data set), news recommendation (on Yahoo! Webscope dataset), interactive influence maximization (on a subset of the Facebook network), and personalized data summarization (on Reuters Corpus). We observe that SM-UCB consistently outperforms the prior art.
Streaming Robust Submodular Maximization:A Partitioned Thresholding Approach,We study the classical problem of maximizing a monotone submodular function subject to a cardinality constraint k, with two additional twists: (i) elements arrive in a streaming fashion and (ii) m items from the algorithms memory might be removed after the stream is finished. We develop the first robust submodular algorithm STAR-T. It is based on a novel partitioning structure and an exponentially decreasing thresholding rule. STAR-T makes one pass over the data and retains a  short but robust summary. We show that after the removal of any m elements from the obtained summary, a simple greedy algorithm STAR-T-GREEDY that runs on the remaining elements achieves a constant-factor approximation guarantee. In two different data summarization tasks, we demonstrate that it matches or outperforms existing greedy and streaming methods, even if they are allowed the benefit of knowing the removed subset in advance.
Minimizing a Submodular Function from Samples,In this paper we consider the problem of minimizing a submodular function from training data. Submodular functions can be efficiently minimized and are conse- quently heavily applied in machine learning. There are many cases, however, in which we do not know the function we aim to optimize, but rather have access to training data that is used to learn the function. In this paper we consider the question of whether submodular functions can be minimized in such cases. We show that even learnable submodular functions cannot be minimized within any non-trivial approximation when given access to polynomially-many samples. Specifically, we show that there is a class of submodular functions with range in [0, 1] such that, despite being PAC-learnable and minimizable in polynomial-time, no algorithm can obtain an approximation strictly better than 1/2  o(1) using polynomially-many samples drawn from any distribution. Furthermore, we show that this bound is tight using a trivial algorithm that obtains an approximation of 1/2. 
Process-constrained batch Bayesian optimisation,Abstract Prevailing batch Bayesian optimisation methods allow all the control variables to be freely altered at each iteration. Real-world experiments, however, have physical limitations making it time-consuming to alter all settings for each recommendation in a batch. This gives rise to a unique problem in BO: in a recommended batch, a set of variables that are expensive to experimentally change need to be constrained and the remaining control variables are varied. We formulate this as process-constrained batch Bayesian optimisation problem. We propose algorithms pc-BO and pc-PEBO and show that the regret of pc-BO is sublinear. We demonstrate the performance of both pc-BO and pc-PEBO by optimising benchmark test functions, tuning hyper-parameters of the SVM classifier, optimising the heat-treatment process for an Al-Sc alloy to achieve target hardness, and optimising the short nano-fiber production process.
The Marginal Value of Adaptive Gradient Methods in Machine Learning,Adaptive optimization methods, which perform local optimization with a metric constructed from the history of iterates, are becoming increasingly popular for training deep neural networks.  Examples include AdaGrad, RMSProp, and Adam. We show that for simple over-parameterized problems, adaptive methods often find drastically different solutions than vanilla stochastic gradient descent (SGD).  We construct an illustrative binary classification problem where the data is linearly separable, SGD achieves zero test error, and AdaGrad and Adam attain test errors arbitrarily close to 1/2.  We additionally study the empirical generalization capability of adaptive methods on several state-of-the-art deep learning models. We observe that the solutions found by adaptive methods generalize worse (often significantly worse) than SGD, even when these solutions have better training performance. These results suggest that practitioners should reconsider the use of adaptive methods to train neural networks.
Breaking the Nonsmooth Barrier: A Scalable Parallel Method for Composite Optimization,Due to their simplicity and excellent performance, parallel asynchronous variants of stochastic gradient descent have become popular methods to solve a wide range of large-scale optimization problems on multi-core architectures.Yet, despite their practical success, support for nonsmooth objectives is still lacking, making them unsuitable for many problems of interest in machine learning, such as the Lasso, group Lasso or empirical risk minimization with box constraints. Key technical issues explain this paucity, both in the design of such algorithms and in their asynchronous analysis. In this work, we propose and analyze ProxASAGA, a fully asynchronous sparse method inspired by SAGA, a variance reduced incremental gradient algorithm. The proposed method is easy to implement and significantly outperforms the state of the art on several nonsmooth, large-scale problems. We prove that our method achieves a theoretical linear speedup with respect to the sequential version under assumptions on the sparsity of gradients and block-separability of the proximal term. Empirical benchmarks on a multi-core architecture illustrate practical speedups of up to 13x on a 20-core machine.
Beyond Worst-case: A Probabilistic Analysis of Affine Policies in Dynamic Optimization , Affine policies (or control) are widely used as a solution approach in dynamic optimization where computing an optimal adjustable solution is usually intractable. While the worst case performance of affine policies can be significantly bad, the empirical performance is observed to be near-optimal for a large class of problem instances. For instance, in the two-stage dynamic robust optimization problem with linear covering constraints and uncertain right hand side, the worst-case approximation bound for affine policies is $O(\sqrt m)$ that is also tight (see Bertsimas and Goyal (2012)), whereas observed empirical performance is near-optimal. In this paper, we aim to address this stark-contrast between the worst-case and the empirical performance of affine policies. In particular, we  show that affine policies give a good approximation for the two-stage adjustable robust optimization problem with high probability on random instances where the constraint coefficients are generated i.i.d. from a large class of distributions; thereby, providing a theoretical justification of the observed empirical performance. On the other hand, we also present a distribution such that the performance bound for affine policies on instances generated according to that distribution is $\Omega(\sqrt m)$ with high probability; however, the constraint coefficients are not i.i.d.. This demonstrates that the empirical performance of affine policies can depend on the generative model for instances.
Approximate Supermodularity Bounds for Experimental Design,This work provides performance guarantees for the greedy solution of experimental design problems. In particular, it focuses on A- and E-optimal designs, for which typical guarantees do not apply since the mean-square error and the maximum eigenvalue of the estimation error covariance matrix are not supermodular. To do so, it leverages the concept of approximate supermodularity to derive non-asymptotic worst-case suboptimality bounds for these greedy solutions. These bounds reveal that as the SNR of the experiments decreases, these cost functions behave increasingly as supermodular functions. As such, greedy A- and E-optimal designs approach (1-1/e)-optimality. These results reconcile the empirical success of greedy experimental design with the non-supermodularity of A- and E-optimality criteria. 
On Blackbox Backpropagation and Jacobian Sensing,From a small number of calls to a given blackbox" on random input perturbations, we show how to efficiently recover its unknown Jacobian, or estimate the left action of its Jacobian on a given vector. Our methods are based on a novel combination of compressed sensing and graph coloring techniques, and provably exploit structural prior knowledge about the Jacobian such as sparsity and symmetry while being noise robust. We demonstrate efficient backpropagation through noisy blackbox layers in a deep neural net, improved data-efficiency in the task of linearizing the dynamics of rigid body system, and the generic ability to handle a rich class of input-output dependency structures in Jacobian estimation problems.
Asynchronous Coordinate Descent under More Realistic Assumptions,Asynchronous-parallel algorithms have the potential to vastly speed up algorithms by eliminating costly synchronization. However, our understanding to these algorithms is limited because the current convergence of asynchronous (block) coordinate descent algorithms are based on somewhat unrealistic assumptions. In particular, the age of the shared optimization variables being used to update a block is assumed to be independent of the block being updated. Also, it is assumed that the updates are applied to randomly chosen blocks. In this paper, we argue that these assumptions either fail to hold or will imply less efficient implementations.   We then prove the convergence of asynchronous-parallel block coordinate descent under more realistic assumptions, in particular, always without the independence assumption. The analysis permits both the deterministic (essentially) cyclic and random rules for block choices. Because a bound on the asynchronous delays may or may not be available, we establish convergence for both bounded delays and unbounded delays. The analysis also covers nonconvex, weakly convex, and strongly convex functions. We construct Lyapunov functions that directly model both objective progress and delays, so delays are not treated errors or noise. A continuous-time ODE is provided to explain the construction at a high level.
Clustering with Noisy Queries,In this paper, we initiate a rigorous theoretical study of clustering with noisy queries. Given a set of $n$ elements, our goal is to recover the true clustering by asking minimum number of pairwise queries to an oracle. Oracle can answer queries of the form ``do elements $u$ and $v$ belong to the same cluster?''-the queries can be asked interactively (adaptive queries), or non-adaptively up-front, but its answer can be erroneous with probability $p$. In this paper, we provide the first information theoretic lower bound on the number of queries for clustering with noisy oracle in both situations.  We design novel algorithms that closely match this query complexity lower bound, even when the number of clusters is unknown.  Moreover, we design computationally efficient algorithms both for the adaptive and non-adaptive settings. The problem captures/generalizes multiple application scenarios. It is directly motivated by the growing body of work that use crowdsourcing for {\em entity resolution}, a fundamental and challenging data mining task aimed to identify all records in a database referring to the same entity. Here crowd represents the noisy oracle, and the number of queries directly relates to the cost of crowdsourcing. Another application comes from the problem of  sign edge prediction in social network, where social interactions can be both positive and negative, and one must identify the sign of all pair-wise interactions by  querying a few pairs. Furthermore, clustering with noisy oracle is intimately connected to correlation clustering, leading to improvement therein. Finally, it introduces a new direction of study in the popular stochastic block model where one has an incomplete stochastic block model matrix to recover the clusters.
Approximation Algorithms for $\ell_0$-Low Rank Approximation,We study the $\ell_0$-Low Rank Approximation Problem, where the goal is, given an $m \times n$ matrix $A$, to output a rank-$k$ matrix $A'$ for which $\|A'-A\|_0$ is as small as possible. Here, for a matrix $B$, $\|B\|_0$ denotes the number of its non-zero entries. This NP-hard variant of low rank approximation is natural for problems for which there is no underlying metric, and the goal is just to capture as many of the positions of the data as possible. We provide approximation algorithms which significantly improve the running time and approximation factor of previous work. For $k > 1$, we show how to find, in poly$(mn)$ time for every $k$, a rank $O(k \log m)$ matrix $A'$ for which $\|A'-A\|_0 \leq \poly(k \log(mn)) \cdot \OPT$. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first algorithm with provable guarantees for the $\ell_0$-Low Rank Approximation Problem for $k > 1$, even for bicriteria algorithms. For the well-studied case when $k = 1$, we give a $(2+\epsilon)$-approximation in {\it sublinear time}, which is impossible for other variants of low rank approximation such as for the  Frobenius norm. We strengthen this for the well-studied case of binary matrices to obtain a $(1+O(\psi))$-approximation in sublinear time, where $\psi = \OPT/\nnz{A}$, $\OPT$ is the minimum of $\|A-B\|_0$ over all rank-$1$ matrices $B$, and $\nnz{A}$ is the number of non-zero entries of $A$. For small $\psi$, our approximation factor is $1+o(1)$.
Convergence Analysis of Two-layer Neural Networks with ReLU Activation,In recent years, stochastic gradient descent (SGD) based techniques has become the standard tools for training neural networks. However, formal theoretical understanding of why SGD can train neural networks in practice is largely missing.  In this paper, we make progress on understanding this mystery by providing a convergence analysis for SGD on a rich subset of two-layer feedforward networks with ReLU activations. This subset is characterized by a special structure called ``identity mapping''. We prove that, if input follows from Gaussian distribution, with standard $O(1/\sqrt{d})$ initialization  of the weights, SGD converges to the global minimum in polynomial number of steps. Unlike normal vanilla networks, the ``identity mapping'' makes our network asymmetric and thus the global minimum is unique. To complement our theory, we are also able to show experimentally that multi-layer networks with this mapping have better performance compared with normal vanilla networks.  Our convergence theorem differs from traditional non-convex optimization techniques. We show that SGD converges to optimal in ``two phases'': In phase I, the gradient points to the wrong direction, however, a potential function $\g$ gradually decreases. Then in phase II, SGD enters a nice one point convex region and converges. We also show that the identity mapping is necessary for convergence, as it moves the initial point to a better place for optimization. Experiment verifies our claims. 
Can Decentralized Algorithms Outperform Centralized Algorithms? A Case Study for Decentralized Parallel Stochastic Gradient Descent,Most distributed machine learning systems nowadays, including TensorFlow and CNTK, are built in a centralized fashion. One bottleneck of centralized algorithms lies on high communication cost on the central node. Motivated by this, we ask, can decentralized algorithms be faster than its centralized counterpart?  Although decentralized PSGD (D-PSGD) algorithms have been studied by the control community, existing analysis and theory do not show any advantage over centralized PSGD (C-PSGD) algorithms, simply assuming the application scenario where only the decentralized network is available. In this paper, we study a D-PSGD algorithm and provide the first theoretical analysis that indicates a regime in which decentralized algorithms might outperform centralized algorithms for distributed stochastic gradient descent. This is because D-PSGD has comparable total computational complexities to C-PSGD but requires much less communication cost on the busiest node. We further conduct an empirical study to validate our theoretical analysis across multiple frameworks (CNTK and Torch), different network configurations, and computation platforms up to 112 GPUs. On network configurations with low bandwidth or high latency, D-PSGD can be up to one order of magnitude faster than its well-optimized centralized counterparts.
Decomposition-Invariant Conditional Gradient for General Polytopes with Line Search,Frank-Wolfe (FW) algorithms with linear convergence rates have recently achieved great efficiency in many applications. Garber and Meshi (2016) designed a new decomposition-invariant pairwise FW variant with favorable dependency on the domain geometry. Unfortunately, it applies only to a restricted class of polytopes and cannot achieve theoretical and practical efficiency at the same time. In this paper, we show that by employing an away-step update, similar rates can be generalized to arbitrary polytopes with strong empirical performance. A new "condition number" of the domain is introduced which allows leveraging the sparsity of the solution. We applied the method to a reformulation of SVM, and the linear convergence rate depends, for the first time, on the number of support vectors.
Straggler Mitigation in Distributed Optimization Through Data Encoding,Slow running or straggler tasks can significantly reduce computation speed in distributed computation. Recently, coding-theory-inspired approaches have been applied to mitigate the effect of straggling, through embedding redundancy in certain linear computational steps of the optimization algorithm, thus completing the computation without waiting for the stragglers. In this paper, we propose an alternate approach where we embed the redundancy in the data instead of the computation, and allow the nodes to operate completely oblivious to encoding. We propose several encoding schemes, and demonstrate that popular batch algorithms, such as gradient descent and L-BFGS, applied in a coding-oblivious manner, deterministically achieve sample path linear convergence to an approximate solution of the original problem, using an arbitrarily varying subset of the nodes at each iteration. Moreover, this approximation can be controlled by the choice of the encoding matrix and the number of nodes used in each iteration. We provide experimental results demonstrating the advantage of the approach over uncoded and replication strategies.
No More Fixed Penalty  Parameter in ADMM: Faster Convergence with New Adaptive Penalization,Alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) has received tremendous interests for solving numerous  problems in machine learning, statistics and signal processing. However, it is well-known that the performance of ADMM and many of its variants  are very sensitive to the penalty parameter of the quadratic term for the equality constraint. Although some useful heuristic approaches have been proposed for dynamically  changing the penalty parameter during the course of optimization, none of them have been shown to yield {\it explicit improvement} in the convergence rate and are appropriate for stochastic ADMM. It remains an open problem how to establish explicitly faster convergence of ADMMs by leveraging an adaptive scheme of penalty parameters. In this paper, we develop a new theory of (linearized) ADMMs with a new adaptive scheme of the penalty parameter for both {\it deterministic and stochastic} optimization problems with non-smooth structured regularizers. The novelty of the proposed adaptive penalty scheme of lies at it is adaptive to a local sharpness property of the objective function, which also marks the key difference from previous work that focus on self-adaptivity in deterministic optimization by adjusting the penalty parameter per iteration based on the iterate message. On theoretical side, with the local sharpness characterized by a constant $\theta\in(0, 1)$,  we show that the proposed deterministic ADMM enjoys an improved iteration complexity of $\widetilde O(1/\epsilon^{1-\theta})$\footnote{$\widetilde O()$ suppresses a logarithmic factor.}, and the proposed stochastic ADMM enjoys an iteration complexity of $\widetilde O(1/\epsilon^{2(1-\theta)})$ without smoothness and strong convexity assumptions, both of which improve that of their standard counterparts with a constant penalty parameter. On practical side, we demonstrate the proposed algorithms converge comparably if not  faster than ADMM with a fine-tuned fixed penalty parameter. 
Accelerated Stochastic Greedy Coordinate Descent by Soft Thresholding Projection onto Simplex,In this paper we study the well-known greedy coordinate descent (GCD)  algorithm to solve $\ell_1$-regularized problems and improve GCD by the two popular strategies: Nesterov's acceleration and stochastic optimization. Firstly, we propose a new rule for greedy selection based on an $\ell_1$-norm square approximation  which is nontrivial to solve but convex; then an efficient algorithm called ``SOft ThreshOlding PrOjection (SOTOPO)'' is proposed to exactly solve the $\ell_1$-regularized $\ell_1$-norm square approximation problem, which is induced by the new rule.  Based on the new rule and the SOTOPO algorithm, the Nesterov's acceleration and stochastic optimization strategies are then successfully applied to the GCD algorithm. The resulted algorithm called accelerated stochastic greedy coordinate descent (ASGCD) has the optimal convergence rate $O(\sqrt{1/\epsilon})$;  meanwhile, it reduces the iteration complexity of greedy selection up to a factor of sample size. Both theoretically and empirically, we show that ASGCD has better performance for high-dimensional and dense problems with sparse solution.
Safe Adaptive Importance Sampling,Importance sampling has become an indispensable strategy to speed up optimization algorithms for large-scale applications. Improved adaptive variants -- using importance values defined by the complete gradient information which changes during optimization -- enjoy favorable theoretical properties, but are typically computationally infeasible. In this paper we propose an efficient approximation of gradient-based sampling, which is based on safe bounds on the gradient. The proposed sampling distribution is  (i) provably the \emph{best sampling} with respect to the given bounds,  (ii) always better than uniform sampling and fixed importance sampling and  (iii) can efficiently be computed -- in many applications  at negligible extra cost. The proposed sampling scheme is generic and can easily be integrated into existing algorithms. In particular, we show that coordinate-descent (CD) and stochastic gradient descent (SGD) can enjoy significant a speed-up under the novel scheme. The proven efficiency of the proposed sampling is verified by extensive numerical testing.
Sharpness, Restart and Acceleration,The {\L}ojasievicz inequality shows that sharpness bounds on the minimum of convex optimization problems hold almost generically. Here, we show that sharpness directly controls the performance of restart schemes. The constants quantifying sharpness are of course unobservable, but we show that optimal restart strategies are robust, and searching for the best scheme only increases the complexity by a logarithmic factor compared to the optimal bound. Overall then, restart schemes generically accelerate accelerated methods.
Stochastic Optimization with Variance Reduction for Infinite Datasets with Finite Sum Structure,Stochastic optimization algorithms with variance reduction have proven successful for minimizing large finite sums of functions. Unfortunately, these techniques are unable to deal with stochastic perturbations of input data, induced for example by data augmentation. In such cases, the objective is no longer a finite sum, and the main candidate for optimization is the stochastic gradient descent method (SGD). In this paper, we introduce a variance reduction approach for these settings when the objective is composite and strongly convex.  The convergence rate outperforms SGD with a typically much smaller constant factor, which depends on the variance of gradient estimates only due to perturbations on a single example.
Min-Max Propagation,We study the application of min-max propagation, a variant of belief propagation, for approximate min-max inference in factor graphs. We show that for ``any'' high-order functions that can be minimized in $\mathcal{O}(\omega)$, the min-max message update can be obtained using an efficient $\mathcal{O}(K (\omega + \log(K))$ procedure, where $K$ is the number of variables. We demonstrate how this, in combination with efficient updates for a family of high-order constraints, enables the application of min-max propagation to efficiently approximate the NP-hard problem of makespan minimization, which seeks to distribute a set of tasks on machines, such that the worst case load is minimized. 
A Disentangled Recognition and Nonlinear Dynamics Model for Unsupervised Learning,This paper takes a step towards temporal reasoning in a dynamically changing video, not in the pixel space that constitutes its frames, but in a latent space that describes the non-linear dynamics of the objects in its world. We introduce the Kalman variational auto-encoder, a framework for unsupervised learning of sequential data that disentangles two latent representations: an object's representation, coming from a recognition model, and a latent state describing its dynamics. As a result, the evolution of the world can be imagined and missing data imputed, both without the need to  generate high dimensional frames at each time step. The model is trained end-to-end on videos of a variety of simulated physical systems, and outperforms competing methods in generative and missing data imputation tasks.
Concrete Dropout,Dropout is used as a practical tool to obtain uncertainty estimates in large vision models and reinforcement learning (RL) tasks. But to obtain well-calibrated uncertainty estimates, a grid-search over the dropout probabilities is necessarya prohibitive operation with large models, and an impossible one with RL. We propose a new dropout variant which gives improved performance and better calibrated uncertainties. Relying on recent developments in Bayesian deep learning, we use a continuous relaxation of dropouts discrete masks. Together with a principled optimisation objective, this allows for automatic tuning of the dropout probability in large models, and as a result faster experimentation cycles. In RL this allows the agent to adapt its uncertainty dynamically as more data is observed. We analyse the proposed variant extensively on a range of tasks, and give insights into common practice in the field where larger dropout probabilities are often used in deeper model layers.
REBAR: Low-variance, unbiased gradient estimates for discrete latent variable models,Learning in models with discrete latent variables is challenging due to high variance gradient estimators. Generally, approaches have relied on control variates to reduce the variance of the REINFORCE estimator. Recent work \citep{jang2016categorical, maddison2016concrete} has taken a different approach, introducing a continuous relaxation of discrete variables to produce low-variance, but biased, gradient estimates. In this work, we combine the two approaches through a novel control variate that produces low-variance, \emph{unbiased} gradient estimates. Then, we introduce a novel continuous relaxation and show that the tightness of the relaxation can be adapted online, removing it as a hyperparameter. We show state-of-the-art variance reduction on several benchmark generative modeling tasks, generally leading to faster convergence to a better final log likelihood.
Hierarchical Implicit Models and Likelihood-Free Variational Inference,Implicit probabilistic models are a flexible class of models defined by a simulation process for data. They form the basis for models which encompass our understanding of the physical word. Despite this fundamental nature, the use of implicit models remains limited due to challenge in positing complex latent structure in them, and the ability to inference in such models with large data sets. In this paper, we first introduce the hierarchical implicit models (HIMs). HIMs combine the idea of implicit densities with hierarchical Bayesian modeling thereby defining models via simulators of data with rich hidden structure. Next, we develop likelihood-free variational inference (LFVI), a scalable variational inference algorithm for HIMs. Key to LFVI is specifying a variational family that is also implicit. This matches the model's flexibility and allows for accurate approximation of the posterior. We demonstrate diverse applications: a large-scale physical simulator for predator-prey populations in ecology; a Bayesian generative adversarial network for discrete data; and a deep implicit model for symbol generation.
Sticking the Landing: Simple, Lower-Variance Gradient Estimators for Variational Inference,We propose a simple and general variant of the standard reparameterized gradient estimator for the variational evidence lower bound. Specifically, we remove a part of the total derivative with respect to the variational parameters that corresponds to the score function. Removing this term produces an unbiased gradient estimator whose variance approaches zero as the approximate posterior approaches the exact posterior. We analyze the behavior of this gradient estimator theoretically and empirically, and generalize it to more complex variational distributions such as mixtures and importance-weighted posteriors.
Perturbative Black Box Variational Inference,Black-box variational inference (BBVI) with reparametrization gradients has inspired the exploration of generalized divergence measures. One popular class of divergences are alpha divergences, which can be tuned such that the resulting optimal variational distribution covers more of the posterior mass, preventing overfitting in complex models. In this paper, we analyze BBVI with generalized divergences as a form of biased importance sampling. The choice of divergences corresponds to a bias-variance tradeoff between a tight variational bound (low bias) and low-variance stochastic gradients. Drawing on variational perturbation theory of statistical physics, we use these insights to construct a new variational bound which is both tight and easy to optimize using reparameterization gradients. We show in several experiments on Gaussian Processes and Variational Autoencoders that the resulting posterior covariances are more confident to the true posterior, leading to less overfitting and therefore higher likelihoods.
Fast Black-box Variational Inference through Stochastic Trust-Region Optimization,We introduce TrustVI, a fast second-order algorithm for black-box variational inference based on trust-region optimization and the reparameterization trick. At each iteration, TrustVI proposes and assesses a step based on minibatches of draws from the variational distribution. The algorithm provably converges to a stationary point. We implement TrustVI in the Stan framework and compare it to ADVI. TrustVI typically converges in tens of iterations to a solution at least as good as the one that ADVI reaches in thousands of iterations. TrustVI iterations can be more computationally expensive, but total computation is typically an order of magnitude less in our experiments.
Excess Risk Bounds for the Bayes Risk using Variational Inference in Latent Gaussian Models,Bayesian models are established as one of the main successful paradigms for complex problems in machine learning. To handle intractable inference, research in this area has developed new approximation methods that are fast and effective. However, theoretical analysis of the performance of such approximations is not well developed. The paper furthers such analysis by providing bounds on the excess risk of variational inference algorithms for a large class of latent variable models with Gaussian latent variables. We strengthen previous results for variational algorithms by showing they are competitive with any point-estimate predictor. Unlike previous work, we also provide bounds on the risk of the \emph{Bayesian} predictor and not just the risk of the Gibbs predictor for the same approximate posterior. The bounds are applied in complex models including sparse Gaussian processes and correlated topic models. Theoretical results are complemented by identifying novel approximations to the Bayesian objective that attempt to minimize the risk directly. An empirical evaluation compares the variational and new algorithms shedding further light on their performance.
Learning Causal Graphs with Latent Variables,Causality is one of the central notions that allows us to decompose reality in meaningful components, construct cohesive stories (explanations) about complex aspects of this reality, and then understand the world around us and make principled decisions in intricate situations. The challenge of learning cause-and-effect relationships from non-experimental data was studied in different settings in the literature of causal structural learning, which includes delineating the boundary conditions such that causal relations can be learned from passive data (Pearl, 2000; SGS, 2001). In this paper, we consider the problem of learning causal structures in the presence of latent variables aided by the use of interventions. It is known that a naive approach to this problem would require O(n2) interventions for a causal graph with n observed variables, which due to costs, technical, or ethical considerations, is rarely feasible to perform in practice. We propose an efficient randomized algorithm to try to ameliorate this problem that can learn the causal graph (including the existence and location of latent variables) using O(log2 n) interventions, for graphs with a constant degree. We further propose an efficient deterministic variant of this procedure that is useful for different classes of graphs, including common cases such as bipartite, time-series, and relational type of systems.
Permutation-based Causal Inference Algorithms with Interventions,Learning Bayesian networks using both observational and interventional data is now a fundamentally important problem due to recent technological developments in genomics that generate single-cell gene expression data at a very large scale. In order to utilize this data for learning gene regulatory networks, efficient and reliable causal inference algorithms are needed that can make use of both observational and interventional data. In this paper, we present two algorithms of this type and prove that both are consistent under the faithfulness assumption. These algorithms are interventional adaptations of the Greedy SP algorithm and are the first algorithms using both observational and interventional data with consistency guarantees. Moreover, these algorithms have the advantage that they are non-parametric, which makes them useful for analyzing inherently non-Gaussian gene expression data. In this paper, we present these two algorithms and their consistency guarantees, and we analyze their performance on simulated data, protein signaling data, and single-cell gene expression data. 
Learning Causal Structures Using Regression Invariance,We study causal inference in a multi-environment setting, in which the functional relations for producing the variables from their direct causes remain the same across environments, while the distribution of exogenous noises may vary. We introduce the idea of using the invariance of the functional relations of the variables to their causes across a set of environments. We define a notion of completeness for a causal inference algorithm in this setting and prove the existence of such algorithm by proposing the baseline algorithm. Additionally, we present an alternate algorithm that has significantly improved computational and sample complexity compared to the baseline algorithm. The experiment results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms the other existing algorithms.
Counterfactual Fairness,Machine learning can impact people with legal or ethical consequences when it is used to automate decisions in areas such as insurance, lending, hiring, and predictive policing.  In many of these scenarios, previous decisions have been made that are unfairly biased against certain subpopulations, for example those of a particular race, gender, or sexual orientation.  Since this past data may be biased, machine learning predictors must account for this to avoid perpetuating or creating discriminatory practices. In this paper, we develop a framework for modeling fairness using tools from causal inference. Our definition of counterfactual fairness captures the intuition that a decision is fair towards an individual if it  the same in (a) the actual world and (b) a counterfactual world where the individual belonged to a different demographic group. We demonstrate our framework on a real-world problem of fair prediction of success in law school. 
Causal Effect Inference with Deep Latent Variable Models,Learning individual-level causal effects from observational data, such as inferring the most effective medication for a specific patient, is a problem of growing importance for policy makers. The most important aspect of inferring causal effects from observational data is the handling of confounders, factors that affect both an intervention and its outcome. A carefully designed observational study attempts to measure all important confounders. However, even if one does not have direct access to all confounders, there may exist noisy and uncertain measurement of proxies for confounders. We build on recent advances in latent variable modeling to simultaneously estimate the unknown latent space summarizing the confounders and the causal effect.  Our method is based on Variational Autoencoders (VAE) which follow the causal structure of inference with proxies. We show our method is significantly more robust than existing methods, and matches the state-of-the-art on previous benchmarks focused on individual treatment effects. 
Conic Scan Coverage algorithm for nonparametric topic modeling,In this paper we propose new algorithms for topic modeling when number of topics is not known.  Our approach relies on an analysis of the concentration of mass and angular geometry of the topic simplex, a convex polytope constructed by taking the convex hull of the topics. The resulting algorithm is shown in practice to have accuracy comparable to that of a  Gibbs sampler in terms of topic estimation, which requires the number of topics be given.  Moreover, our algorithm is the fastest among a variety of state of the art parametric techniques.  The consistency of the estimates produced by our method is established under some conditions.
Tractability in Structured Probability Spaces,Recently, the Probabilistic Sentential Decision Diagram (PSDD) has been proposed as a framework for systematically inducing and learning distributions over structured objects, including combinatorial objects such as permutations and rankings, paths and matchings on a graph, etc. In this paper, we study the scalability of such models in the context of representing and learning distributions over routes on a map. In particular, we introduce the notion of a hierarchical route distribution and show how they can be leveraged to construct tractable PSDDs over route distributions, allowing them to scale to larger maps. We illustrate the utility of our model empirically, in a route prediction task, showing how accuracy can be increased significantly compared to Markov models.
PASS-GLM: polynomial approximate sufficient statistics for scalable Bayesian GLM inference,Generalized linear models (GLMs)---such as logistic regression, Poisson regression, and robust regression---provide interpretable models for diverse data types. Probabilistic approaches, particularly Bayesian ones, allow coherent estimates of uncertainty, incorporation of prior information, and sharing of power across experiments via hierarchical models. In practice, however, the approximate Bayesian methods necessary for inference have either failed to scale to large data sets or failed to provide theoretical guarantees on the quality of inference. We propose a new approach based on constructing polynomial approximate sufficient statistics for GLMs (PASS-GLM). We demonstrate that our method admits a simple algorithm as well as trivial streaming and distributed extensions that do not compound error across computations. We provide theoretical guarantees on the quality of point (MAP) estimates, the approximate posterior, and posterior mean and uncertainty estimates. We validate our approach empirically in the case of logistic regression using a quadratic approximation and show competitive performance in terms of both speed and accuracy---including on an advertising data set with 40 million data points and 20,000 covariates.
Adaptive Bayesian Sampling with Monte Carlo EM,We present a novel technique for learning the mass matrices in samplers obtained from discretized dynamics that preserve some energy function. Existing adaptive samplers use Riemannian preconditioning techniques, where the mass matrices are functions of the parameters being sampled. This leads to significant complexities in the energy reformulations and resultant dynamics, often leading to implicit systems of equations and requiring inversion of high-dimensional matrices in the leapfrog steps. Our approach provides a simpler alternative, by using existing dynamics in the sampling step of a Monte Carlo EM framework, and learning the mass matrices in the M step with a novel online technique. We also propose a way to adaptively set the number of samples gathered in the E step, using sampling error estimates from the leapfrog dynamics. Along with a novel stochastic sampler based on Nos\'{e}-Poincar\'{e} dynamics, we use this framework with standard Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) as well as newer stochastic algorithms such as SGHMC and SGNHT, and show strong performance on synthetic and real high-dimensional sampling scenarios; we achieve sampling accuracies comparable to Riemannian samplers while being significantly faster. 
What-If Reasoning using Counterfactual Gaussian Processes,Answering "What if?" questions is important in many domains. For example, would a patient's disease progression slow down if I were to give them a dose of drug A? Ideally, we answer our question using an experiment, but this is not always possible (e.g., it may be unethical). As an alternative, we can use non-experimental data to learn models that make counterfactual predictions of what we would observe had we run an experiment. In this paper, we propose the counterfactual GP, a counterfactual model of continuous-time trajectories (time series) under sequences of actions taken in continuous-time. We develop our model within the potential outcomes framework of Neyman and Rubin. The counterfactual GP is trained using a joint maximum likelihood objective that adjusts for dependencies between observed actions and outcomes in the training data. We report two sets of experimental results using the counterfactual GP. The first shows that it can be used to learn the natural progression (i.e. untreated progression) of biomarker trajectories from observational data. In the second, we show how the CGP can be used for medical decision support by learning counterfactual models of renal health under different types of dialysis.
Multi-Information Source Optimization,We consider Bayesian methods for multi-information source optimization (MISO), in which we seek to optimize an expensive-to-evaluate black-box objective function while also accessing cheaper but biased and noisy approximations ("information sources").  We present a novel algorithm that outperforms the state of the art for this problem by using a joint statistical model of the information sources better suited to MISO than those used by previous approaches, and a novel acquisition function based on a one-step optimality analysis supported by efficient parallelization.  We provide a guarantee on the asymptotic quality of the solution provided by this algorithm.  Experimental evaluations demonstrate that this algorithm consistently finds designs of higher value at less cost than previous approaches.
Doubly Stochastic Variational Inference for Deep Gaussian Processes,Deep Gaussian processes (DGPs) are multi-layer generalizations of GPs, but inference in these models has proved challenging. Existing approaches to inference in DGP models assume approximate posteriors that force independence between the layers, and do not work well in practice. We present a doubly stochastic variational inference algorithm, which does not force independence between layers. With our method of inference we demonstrate that a DGP model can be used effectively on data ranging in size from hundreds to a billion points. We provide strong empirical evidence that our inference scheme for DGPs works well in practice in both classification and regression. 
Convolutional Gaussian Processes,We introduce a practical way of introducing convolutional structure into Gaussian processes, which makes them better suited to high-dimensional inputs like images than existing kernels. The main contribution of our work is the construction of an inter-domain inducing point approximation that is well-tailored to the convolutional kernel. This allows us to gain the generalisation benefit of a convolutional kernel, together with fast but accurate posterior inference. We investigate several variations of the convolutional kernel, and apply it to MNIST and CIFAR-10 that have been known to be challenging for Gaussian processes. We also show how the marginal likelihood can be used to find an optimal weighting between convolutional and RBF kernels to further improve performance. We hope this illustration of the usefulness of a marginal likelihood will help to automate discovering architectures in larger models.
Multiresolution Kernel Approximation for Gaussian Process Regression,Gaussian process regression generally does not scale to beyond a few thousands data points without applying some sort of kernel approximation method. Most approximations focus on the high eigenvalue part of the spectrum of the kernel matrix, $K$, which leads to bad performance when the length scale of the kernel is small. In this paper we introduce Multiresolution Kernel Approximation (MKA), the first true broad bandwidth kernel approximation algorithm.  Important points about MKA are that it is memory efficient, and it is a direct method,  which means that it also makes it easy to approximate $K^{-1}$ and $\mathop{\textrm{det}}(K)$. 
Unifying PAC and Regret: Uniform PAC Bounds for Episodic Reinforcement Learning,Statistical performance bounds for reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms can be critical for high-stakes applications like healthcare. This paper introduces a new framework for theoretically measuring the performance of such algorithms called Uniform-PAC, which is a strengthening of the classical Probably Approximately Correct (PAC) framework. In contrast to the PAC framework, the uniform version may be used to derive high probability regret guarantees and so forms a bridge between the two setups that has been missing in the literature. We demonstrate the benefits of the new framework for finite-state episodic MDPs with a new algorithm that is Uniform-PAC and simultaneously achieves optimal regret and PAC guarantees except for a factor of the horizon. 
Repeated Inverse Reinforcement Learning,We introduce a novel repeated Inverse Reinforcement Learning problem: the agent has to act on behalf of a human in a sequence of tasks and wishes to minimize the number of tasks that it surprises the human by acting suboptimally with respect to how the human would have acted. Each time the human is surprised the agent is provided a demonstration of the desired behavior by the human. We formalize this problem, including how the sequence of tasks is chosen, in a few different ways and provide some foundational results.
Inverse Reward Design,Autonomous agents optimize the reward function we give them. What they don't know is how hard it is for us to design a reward function that actually captures what we  want. When designing the reward, we might think of some specific scenarios (driving on clean roads), and make sure that the reward will lead to the right behavior in \emph{those} scenarios. Inevitably, agents encounter \emph{new} scenarios (snowy roads), and optimizing the reward can lead to undesired behavior (driving too fast). Our insight in this work is that reward functions are merely \emph{observations} about what the designer \emph{actually} wants, and that they should be interpreted in the context in which they were designed. We introduce \emph{Inverse Reward Design} (IRD) as the problem of inferring the true reward based on the designed reward and the training MDP. We introduce approximate methods for solving IRD problems, and use their solution to plan risk-averse behavior in test MDPs. Empirical results suggest that this approach takes a step towards alleviating negative side effects and preventing reward hacking.
Utile Context Tree Weighting,Reinforcement learning (RL) in partially observable settings is challenging because the agents immediate observations are not Markov. Recently proposed methods can learn variable-order Markov models of the underlying process but have steep memory requirements and are sensitive to aliasing between observation histories due to sensor noise. This paper proposes utile context tree weighting (UCTW), a model-learning method that addresses these limitations. UCTW dynamically expands a suffix tree while ensuring that the total size of the model, but not its depth, remains bounded. We show that UCTW approximately matches the performance of state-of-the-art alternatives at stochastic time-series prediction while using at least an order of magnitude less memory. We also apply UCTW to model-based RL, showing that, on tasks that require memory of past observations, UCTW can learn without prior knowledge of a good state representation, or even the length of history upon which such a representation should depend. 
Policy Gradient With Value Function Approximation For Collective Multiagent Planning,Decentralized (PO)MDPs provide an expressive framework for sequential decision making in a multiagent system. Given their computational complexity, recent research has focused on tractable yet practical subclasses of Dec-POMDPs. We address such a subclass called CDec-POMDP where the collective behavior of a population of agents affects the joint-reward and environment dynamics. Our main contribution is an actor-critic (AC) reinforcement learning method for optimizing CDec-POMDP policies. Vanilla AC has slow convergence for larger problems. To address this, we show how a particular decomposition of the approximate action-value function over agents leads to effective updates, and also derive a new way to train the critic based on local reward signals. Comparisons on a synthetic benchmark and a real world taxi fleet optimization problem show that our new AC approach provides better quality solutions than previous best approaches.
A Unified Game-Theoretic Approach to Multiagent Reinforcement Learning,There has been a resurgence of interest in multiagent reinforcement learning (MARL), due partly to the recent success of deep neural networks. The simplest form of MARL is independent reinforcement learning (InRL), where each agent treats all of its experience as part of its (non stationary) environment. In this paper, we first observe that policies learned using InRL can overfit to the other agents' policies during training, failing to sufficiently generalize during execution. We introduce a new metric, joint-policy correlation, to quantify this effect. We describe a meta-algorithm for general MARL, based on approximate best responses to mixtures of policies generated using deep reinforcement learning, and empirical game theoretic analysis to compute meta-strategies for policy selection. The meta-algorithm generalizes previous algorithms such as InRL, iterated best response, double oracle, and fictitious play. Then, we propose a scalable implementation which reduces the memory requirement using decoupled meta-solvers. Finally, we demonstrate the generality of the resulting policies in three partially observable settings: gridworld coordination problems, emergent language games, and poker.
Dynamic Safe Interruptibility for Decentralized Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning,In reinforcement learning, agents learn by taking actions and observing their outcomes. Sometimes, it is desirable for a human operator to \textit{interrupt} an agent in order to prevent dangerous situations from happening. Yet, as part of their learning process, agents may link these interruptions, that impact their reward, to specific states and deliberately avoid them. The situation is particularly challenging in a multi-agent context because agents might not only learn from their own past interruptions, but also from those of other agents. Orseau and Armstrong~\cite{orseau2016safely} defined \emph{safe interruptibility} for one learner, but their work does not naturally extend to multi-agent systems. This paper introduces \textit{dynamic safe interruptibility}, an alternative definition more suited to decentralized learning problems, and studies this notion in two learning frameworks: \textit{joint action learners} and \textit{independent learners}. We give realistic sufficient conditions on the learning algorithm to enable dynamic safe interruptibility in the case of joint action learners, yet show that these conditions are not sufficient for independent learners. We show however that if agents can detect interruptions, it is possible to prune the observations to ensure dynamic safe interruptibility even for independent learners.
Multi-Agent Actor-Critic for Mixed Cooperative-Competitive Environments,We explore deep reinforcement learning methods for multi-agent domains. We begin by analyzing the difficulty of traditional algorithms in the multi-agent case: Q-learning is challenged by an inherent non-stationarity of the environment, while policy gradient suffers from a variance that increases as the number of agents grows. We then present an adaptation of actor-critic methods that considers action policies of other agents and is able to successfully learn policies that require complex multi-agent coordination. Additionally, we introduce a training regimen utilizing an ensemble of policies for each agent that leads to more robust multi-agent policies. We show the strength of our approach compared to existing methods in cooperative as well as competitive scenarios, where agent populations are able to discover various physical and informational coordination strategies.
Spectrally-normalized margin bounds for neural networks,We show that the margin distribution --- normalized by a spectral complexity parameter --- is strongly predictive of neural network generalization performance. Namely, we 1) Use the margin distribution to correctly predict whether deep neural networks generalize under changes to label distribution such as randomization. That is, the margin distribution accurately predicts the difficulty of deep learning tasks. We further show that normalizing the margin by the network's spectral complexity is critical to obtaining this predictive power, and finally use the margin distribution to compare the generalization performance of multiple networks across different datasets on even terms. Our corresponding generalization bound places these results on rigorous theoretical footing.  
On Structured Prediction Theory with Calibrated Convex Surrogate Losses,We provide novel theoretical insights on structured prediction in the context of efficient convex surrogate loss minimization with consistency guarantees. For any task loss, we construct a convex surrogate that can be optimized via stochastic gradient descent and we prove tight bounds on the so-called "calibration function" relating the excess surrogate risk to the actual risk. In contrast to prior related work, we carefully monitor the effect of the exponential number of classes in the learning guarantees as well as on the optimization complexity. As an interesting consequence, we formalize the intuition that some task losses make learning harder than others, and that the classical 0-1 loss is ill-suited for structured prediction.
Collaborative PAC Learning,We introduce the collaborative PAC learning model, in which k players attempt to learn the same underlying concept. We ask how much more information is required to learn an accurate classifier for all players simultaneously. We refer to the ratio between the sample complexity of collaborative PAC learning and its non-collaborative (single-player) counterpart as the overhead. We design learning algorithms with O(ln(k)) and O(ln^2(k)) overhead in the personalized and centralized variants our model. This gives an exponential improvement upon the naive algorithm that does not share information among players. We complement our upper bounds with an Omega(ln(k)) overhead lower bound, showing that our results are tight up to a logarithmic factor.
Submultiplicative Glivenko-Cantelli and Uniform Convergence of Revenues,In this work we derive a variant of the classic Glivenko-Cantelli Theorem, which asserts uniform convergence of the empirical Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) to the CDF of the underlying distribution. Our variant allows for tighter convergence bounds for extreme values of the CDF.  We apply our bound in the context of revenue learning, which is a well-studied problem in economics and algorithmic game theory. We derive sample-complexity bounds on the uniform convergence rate of the empirical revenues to the true revenues, assuming a bound on the k'th moment of the valuations, for any (possibly fractional) k > 1.  For uniform convergence in the limit, we give a complete characterization and a zero-one law: if the first moment of the valuations is finite, then uniform convergence almost surely occurs; conversely, if the first moment is infinite, then uniform convergence almost never occurs.
Discriminative State Space Models,In this paper, we introduce and analyze Discriminative State-Space Models for forecasting non-stationary time series. We provide data-dependent generalization guarantees for learning these models based on the recently introduced notion of discrepancy. We provide an in-depth analysis of the complexity of such models. Finally, we also study the generalization guarantees for several structural risk minimization approaches to this problem and provide an efficient implementation for one of them which is based on a convex objective.
Delayed Mirror Descent in Continuous Games,In this paper, we consider a model of game-theoretic learning based on online mirror descent (OMD) with asynchronous and delayed information. Instead of focusing on a specific class of games (such as zero-sum or potential games), we introduce a general equilibrium stability notion for games with continuous action spaces, which we cal variational stability. Our first contribution is that the last iterate (that is, the induced sequence of play) of OMD converges to variationally stable equilibria provided that the feedback delays faced by the players are synchronous and bounded. Subsequently, to tackle fully decentralized, asynchronous environments with unbounded feedback delays, we propose a variant of OMD which we call delayed mirror descent (DMD), and which relies on the repeated leveraging of past information. With this modification, the algorithm converges to variationally stable equilibria, with no feedback synchronicity assumptions, and even when the delays grow superlinearly relative to the games horizon.
Variance-based Regularization with Convex Objectives,We develop an approach to risk minimization and stochastic optimization that provides a convex surrogate for variance, allowing near-optimal and computationally efficient trading between approximation and estimation error. Our approach builds off of techniques for distributionally robust optimization and Owen's empirical likelihood, and we provide a number of finite-sample and asymptotic results characterizing the theoretical performance of the estimator. In particular, we show that our procedure comes with certificates of optimality, achieving (in some scenarios) faster rates of convergence than empirical risk minimization by virtue of automatically balancing bias and variance. We give corroborating empirical evidence showing that in practice, the estimator indeed trades between variance and absolute performance on a training sample, improving out-of-sample (test) performance over standard empirical risk minimization for a number of classification problems.
Learning Mixture of Gaussians with Streaming Data,In this paper, we study the problem of learning a mixture of Gaussians with streaming data: given a stream of $N$ points in $d$ dimensions generated by an unknown mixture of $k$ spherical Gaussians, the goal is to estimate the model parameters using a single pass over the data stream. We analyze a streaming version of the popular Lloyd's heuristic and show that the algorithm estimates all the unknown centers of the component Gaussians  accurately if they are sufficiently separated. Assuming each pair of centers are $C\sigma$ distant with $C=\Omega((k\log k)^{1/4}\sigma)$ and where $\sigma^2$ is the maximum variance of any Gaussian component, we show that asymptotically the algorithm estimates the centers optimally (up to certain constants); our center separation requirement matches the best known result for spherical Gaussians \citep{vempalawang}. For finite samples, we show that a bias term based on the initial estimate decreases at $O(1/{\rm poly}(N))$ rate while variance decreases at nearly optimal rate of $\sigma^2 d/N$. Our analysis requires seeding the algorithm with a good initial estimate of the true cluster centers for which we provide an online PCA based clustering algorithm. Indeed, the asymptotic per-step time complexity of our algorithm is the optimal $d\cdot k$ while space complexity of our algorithm is $O(dk\log k)$.  In addition to the bias and variance terms which tend to $0$, the hard-thresholding based updates of streaming Lloyd's algorithm is agnostic to the data distribution and hence incurs an \emph{approximation error} that cannot be avoided. However, by using a streaming version of the classical \emph{(soft-thresholding-based)} EM method that exploits the Gaussian distribution explicitly, we show that for a mixture of two Gaussians the true means can be estimated consistently, with estimation error decreasing at nearly optimal rate, and tending to $0$ for $N\rightarrow \infty$.
On the Consistency of Quick Shift,Quick Shift is a popular mode-seeking and clustering algorithm, however its statistical properties are not yet understood. We show surprising finite sample statistical consistency guarantees on mode and cluster estimation under mild regularity assumptions on the underlying density $f$ on $\mathbb{R}^d$. We then apply our results to construct a consistent modal regression algorithm.
Early stopping for kernel boosting algorithms: A general analysis with localized complexities,Early stopping of iterative algorithms is a widely-used form of regularization in statistical learning, commonly used in conjunction with boosting and related gradient-type algorithms. Although consistency results have been established in some settings, such estimators are less well-understood than their analogues based on penalized regularization.  In this paper, for a relatively broad   class of loss functions and boosting algorithms (including   $L^2$-boost, LogitBoost and AdaBoost, among others), we connect the performance of a stopped iterate to the localized  Rademacher/Gaussian complexity of the associated function class. This connection allows us to show that local fixed point analysis, now standard in the analysis of penalized estimators, can be used to derive optimal stopping rules.  We derive such stopping rules in detail for various kernel classes, and illustrate the correspondence of our theory with practice for Sobolev kernel classes.
A Sharp Error Analysis for the Fused Lasso, with Implications to Broader Settings  and Approximate Screening,In the 1-dimensional multiple changepoint detection problem, existing theorems about the $\ell_2$ error rate focus primarily on the model where the true parameters represent a piecewise constant mean sequence. However, this model is not suitable for many applications in practice. To bridge this gap, we prove a new $\ell_2$ error rate for the fused lasso under the squared error loss parameterized by the number of changepoints when the samples are drawn from sub-Gaussian errors centered around a piecewise constant mean function. To achieve this, we develop a novel proof technique revolving around a \emph{lower interpolant}, and our rate is a $\log \log n$-away from the minimax optimal rate under this setting. Equally as important, our proof technique enables us to extend our sharp error rates to more general models, in particular misspecified models and a broad range of exponential family models. To the best of our knowledge, no other analyses can extend their $\ell_2$ error rates to these settings. Our results have consequences of sharper rates in the approximate screening of changepoint locations.
The Scaling Limit of High-Dimensional Online Independent Component Analysis,We analyze the dynamics of an online algorithm for independent component analysis in the high-dimensional scaling limit. As the ambient dimension tends to infinity, and with proper time scaling, we show that the time-varying joint empirical measure of the target feature vector and the estimates provided by the algorithm will converge weakly to a deterministic measured-valued process that can be characterized as the unique solution of a nonlinear PDE. Numerical solutions of this PDE, which involves two spatial variables and one time variable, can be efficiently obtained. These solutions provide detailed information about the performance of the ICA algorithm, as many practical performance metrics are functionals of the joint empirical measures. Numerical simulations show that our asymptotic analysis is accurate even for moderate dimensions. In addition to providing a tool for understanding the performance of the algorithm, our PDE analysis also provides useful insight. In particular, in the high-dimensional limit, the original coupled dynamics associated with the algorithm will be asymptotically ''decoupled'', with each coordinate independently solving a 1-D effective minimization problem via stochastic gradient descent. Exploiting this insight to design new algorithms for achieving optimal trade-offs between computational and statistical efficiency may prove an interesting line of future research.
A Universal Analysis of Large-Scale Regularized Least Squares Solutions,A problem that has been of recent interest in statistical inference, machine learning and signal processing is that of understanding the asymptotic behavior of regularized least squares solutions under random measurement matrices (or dictionaries). The Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO or least-squares with $\ell_1$ regularization) is perhaps one of the most interesting examples. Precise expressions for the asymptotic performance of LASSO have been obtained for a number of different cases, in particular when the elements of the dictionary matrix are sampled independently from a Gaussian distribution. It has also been empirically observed that the resulting expressions remain valid when the entries of the dictionary matrix are independently sampled from certain non-Gaussian distributions. In this paper, we confirm these observations theoretically when the distribution is sub-Gaussian. We further generalize the previous expressions for a broader family of regularization functions and under milder conditions on the underlying random, possibly non-Gaussian, dictionary matrix. In particular, we establish the universality of the asymptotic statistics (e.g., the average quadratic risk) of LASSO with non-Gaussian dictionaries. 
 Statistical Convergence Analysis of Gradient EM on General Gaussian Mixture Models,In this paper, we study convergence properties of the gradient Expectation-Maximization algorithm~\cite{lange1995gradient} for Gaussian Mixture Models for general number of clusters and mixing coefficients. We derive the convergence rate depending on the mixing coefficients, minimum and maximum pairwise distances between the true centers and dimensionality and number of components; and obtain a near-optimal local contraction radius. While there have been some recent notable works that derive local convergence rates for EM in the two equal mixture symmetric GMM, in the more general case, the derivations need structurally different and non-trivial arguments. We use recent tools from learning theory and empirical processes to achieve our theoretical results.
Online control of the false discovery rate with decaying memory,In the online multiple testing problem, p-values corresponding to different null hypotheses are presented one by one, and the decision of whether to reject a hypothesis must be made immediately, after which the next p-value is presented. Alpha-investing algorithms to control the false discovery rate were first formulated by Foster and Stine and have since been generalized and applied to various settings, varying from quality-preserving databases for science to multiple A/B tests for internet commerce. This paper improves the class of generalized alpha-investing algorithms (GAI) in four ways : (a) we show how to uniformly improve the power of the entire class of GAI procedures under independence by awarding more alpha-wealth for each rejection, giving a near win-win resolution to a dilemma raised by Javanmard and Montanari, (b) we demonstrate how to incorporate prior weights to indicate domain knowledge of which hypotheses are likely to be null or non-null, (c) we allow for differing penalties for false discoveries to indicate that some hypotheses may be more meaningful/important than others, (d) we define a new quantity called the \emph{decaying memory false discovery rate, or $\memfdr$} that may be more meaningful for applications with an explicit time component, using a discount factor to incrementally forget past decisions and alleviate some potential problems that we describe and name ``piggybacking'' and ``alpha-death''. Our GAI++ algorithms incorporate all four generalizations (a, b, c, d) simulatenously, and reduce to more powerful variants of earlier algorithms when the weights and decay are all set to unity.
Learning with Bandit Feedback in Potential Games,This paper examines the equilibrium convergence properties of no-regret learning with exponential weights in potential games. To establish convergence with minimal information requirements on the players side, we focus on two low-information frameworks: the semi-bandit case (where players have access to a noisy estimate of their payoff vector, including strategies they did not play), and the bandit case (where players are only able to observe their in-game, realized payoffs). In the semi-bandit case, we show that the induced sequence of play converges almost surely to a Nash equilibrium at a quasi-exponential rate. In the bandit case, the same result holds for "epsilon-approximations of Nash equilibria if we introduce a mixing factor "epsilon > 0 that guarantees that action choice probabilities never fall below epsilon". In particular, if the algorithm is run with a suitably decreasing mixing factor, the sequence of play converges to a bona fide Nash equilibrium with probability 1.
Fully Decentralized Policies for Multi-Agent Systems: An Information Theoretic Approach,Learning cooperative policies for multi-agent systems is often challenged by partial observability and a lack of coordination. In some settings, the structure of a problem allows a distributed solution with limited communication with a central or subarea node or from agent to agent. Here, we consider a scenario where no communication is available, and instead we learn local policies for all agents that collectively mimic the solution to a centralized multi-agent optimization problem. We present an information theoretic framework based on rate distortion theory which facilitates analysis of how well fully decentralized policies are able to reconstruct the optimal solution. Moreover, this framework provides a natural extension that addresses which nodes an agent should communicate with to improve the performance of its individual policy.
Revenue Optimization with Approximate Bid Predictions,In the context of advertising auctions, finding good reserve prices is a notoriously challenging learning problem. This is due to the heterogeneity of ad opportunity types, and the non-convexity of the objective function. In this work, we show how to reduce reserve price optimization to the standard setting of prediction under squared loss, a well understood problem in the learning community.  We further bound the gap between the expected bid and revenue in terms of the average loss of the predictor. This is the first result that formally relates the revenue gained to the quality of a standard machine learned model. 
A Decomposition of Forecast Error in Prediction Markets,We analyze sources of error in prediction market forecasts in order to bound the difference between a security's price and the ground truth it estimates. We consider cost-function-based prediction markets in which an automated market maker adjusts security prices according to the history of trade. We decompose the forecasting error into three components: sampling error, arising because traders only possess noisy estimates of ground truth; market-maker bias, resulting from the use of a particular market maker (i.e., cost function) to facilitate trade; and convergence error, arising because, at any point in time, market prices may still be in flux. Our goal is to make explicit the tradeoffs between these error components inherent in design decisions such as the functional form of the cost function and the amount of liquidity in the market. We consider a specific model in which traders have exponential utility and exponential-family beliefs representing noisy estimates of ground truth. In this setting, sampling error vanishes as the number of traders grows, but there is a tradeoff between the other two components. We provide both upper and lower bounds on market-maker bias and convergence error, and demonstrate via numerical simulations that these bounds are tight. Our results yield new insights into the question of how to set the market's liquidity parameter and into the forecasting benefits of enforcing coherent prices across securities.
Dynamic Revenue Sharing,Many online platforms act as intermediaries between a seller and a set of buyers. Examples of such settings include online retailers (such as Ebay) selling items on behalf of sellers to buyers, or advertising exchanges (such as AdX) selling pageviews on behalf of publishers to advertisers. In such settings, {\em revenue sharing} is a central part of running such a marketplace for the intermediary, and fixed-percentage revenue sharing schemes are often used to split the revenue among the platform and the sellers. In particular, such revenue sharing schemes require the platform to (i) take at most a constant fraction $\alpha$ of the revenue from auctions and (ii) pay the seller at least the seller declared opportunity cost $c$ for each item sold. A straightforward way to satisfy the constraints is to set a reserve price at $c / (1 - \alpha)$ for each item, but it is not the optimal solution on maximizing the profit of the intermediary.  While previous studies (by Mirrokni and Gomes, and by Niazadeh et al) focused on revenue-sharing schemes in static double auctions, in this paper, we take advantage of the repeated nature of the auctions. In particular, we introduce {\em dynamic revenue sharing schemes} where we balance the two constraints over different auctions to achieve higher profit and seller revenue. This is directly motivated by the practice of advertising exchanges where the fixed-percentage revenue-share should be met across all auctions and not in each auction. In this paper, we characterize the optimal revenue sharing scheme that satisfies both constraints in expectation. Finally, we empirically evaluate our revenue sharing scheme on real data. 
Multi-View Decision Processes,We consider a co-operative two-player sequential game in which agents may disagree on the transition probabilities of an underlying Markovian model of the world. By committing to play a specific policy, the agent with the correct model can steer the behavior of the other agent, and hence achieve a significant improvement in utility. We model this setting as a multi-view decision process, which we use to formally analyze the positive effect of steering policies. Furthermore, we develop an algorithm for computing the agents' achievable joint policy, and we experimentally show that it can lead to a significant utility increase when the agents' models diverge. 
A Unified Semantic Embedding: Relating Taxonomies and Attributes,We propose a method that learns a discriminative yet semantic space for object categorization, where we also embed auxiliary semantic entities such as supercategories and attributes. Contrary to prior work which only utilized them as side information, we explicitly embed the semantic entities into the same space where we embed categories, which enables us to represent a category as their linear combination. By exploiting such a unified model for semantics, we enforce each category to be generated as a sparse combination of a supercategory + attributes, with an additional exclusive regularization to learn discriminative composition. The proposed reconstructive regularization guides the discriminative learning process to learn a better generalizing model, as well as generates compact semantic description of each category, which enables humans to analyze what has been learned.
Distributed Estimation, Information Loss and Exponential Families,Distributed learning of probabilistic models from multiple data repositories with minimum communication is increasingly important. We study a simple communication-efficient learning framework that first calculates the local maximum likelihood estimates (MLE) based on the data subsets, and then combines the local MLEs to achieve the best possible approximation to the global MLE, based on the whole dataset jointly. We study the statistical properties of this framework, showing that the loss of efficiency compared to the global setting relates to how much the underlying distribution families deviate from full exponential families, drawing connection to the theory of information loss by Fisher, Rao and Efron. We show that the "full-exponential-family-ness" represents the lower bound of the error rate of arbitrary combinations of local MLEs, and is achieved by a KL-divergence-based combination method but not by a more common linear combination method. We also study the empirical properties of the KL and linear combination methods, showing that the KL method significantly outperforms linear combination in practical settings with issues such as model misspecification, non-convexity, and heterogeneous data partitions.
Near-Optimal Density Estimation in Near-Linear Time Using Variable-Width Histograms,Let $p$ be an unknown and arbitrary probability distribution over $[0 ,1)$. We consider the problem of \emph{density estimation}, in which a learning algorithm is given i.i.d. draws from $p$ and must (with high probability) output a hypothesis distribution that is close to $p$. The main contribution of this paper is a highly efficient density estimation algorithm for learning using a variable-width histogram, i.e., a hypothesis distribution with a piecewise constant probability density function. In more detail, for any $k$ and $\eps$, we give an algorithm that makes $\tilde{O}(k/\eps^2)$ draws from $p$, runs in $\tilde{O}(k/\eps^2)$ time, and outputs a hypothesis distribution $h$ that is piecewise constant with $O(k \log^2(1/\eps))$ pieces. With high probability the hypothesis $h$ satisfies $\dtv(p,h) \leq C \cdot \opt_k(p) + \eps$, where $\dtv$ denotes the total variation distance (statistical distance), $C$ is a universal constant, and $\opt_k(p)$ is the smallest total variation distance between $p$ and any $k$-piecewise constant distribution. The sample size and running time of our algorithm are both optimal up to logarithmic factors. The ``approximation factor'' $C$ that is present in our result is inherent in the problem, as we prove that no algorithm with sample size bounded in terms of $k$ and $\eps$ can achieve $C < 2$ regardless of what kind of hypothesis distribution it uses.
The Bayesian Case Model: A Generative Approach for Case-Based Reasoning and Prototype Classification,We present the Bayesian Case Model (BCM), a general framework for Bayesian case-based reasoning (CBR) and prototype classification and clustering. BCM brings the intuitive power of CBR to a Bayesian generative framework. The BCM learns prototypes, the ``quintessential" observations that best represent clusters in a dataset, by performing joint inference on cluster labels, prototypes and important features. Simultaneously, BCM pursues sparsity by learning subspaces, the sets of features that play important roles in the characterization of the prototypes. The prototype and subspace representation provides quantitative benefits in interpretability while preserving classification accuracy. Human subject experiments verify statistically significant improvements to participants' understanding when using explanations produced by BCM, compared to those given by prior art.
Encoding High Dimensional Local Features by Sparse Coding Based Fisher Vectors,Deriving from the gradient vector of a generative model of local features, Fisher vector coding (FVC) has been identified as an effective coding method for image classification. Most, if not all, FVC implementations employ the Gaussian mixture model (GMM) to characterize the generation process of local features. This choice has shown to be sufficient for traditional low dimensional local features, e.g., SIFT; and typically, good performance can be achieved with only a few hundred Gaussian distributions. However, the same number of Gaussians is insufficient to model the feature space spanned by higher dimensional local features, which have become popular recently. In order to improve the modeling capacity for high dimensional features, it turns out to be inefficient and computationally impractical to simply increase the number of Gaussians. In this paper, we propose a model in which each local feature is drawn from a Gaussian distribution whose mean vector is sampled from a subspace. With certain approximation, this model can be converted to a sparse coding procedure and the learning/inference problems can be readily solved by standard sparse coding methods. By calculating the gradient vector of the proposed model, we derive a new fisher vector encoding strategy, termed Sparse Coding based Fisher Vector Coding (SCFVC). Moreover, we adopt the recently developed Deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) descriptor as a high dimensional local feature and implement image classification with the proposed SCFVC. Our experimental evaluations demonstrate that our method not only significantly outperforms the traditional GMM based Fisher vector encoding but also achieves the state-of-the-art performance in generic object recognition, indoor scene, and fine-grained image classification problems.
SerialRank: Spectral Ranking using Seriation,We describe a seriation algorithm for ranking a set of n items given pairwise comparisons between these items. Intuitively, the algorithm assigns similar rankings to items that compare similarly with all others. It does so by constructing a similarity matrix from pairwise comparisons, using seriation methods to reorder this matrix and construct a ranking. We first show that this spectral seriation algorithm recovers the true ranking when all pairwise comparisons are observed and consistent with a total order. We then show that ranking reconstruction is still exact even when some pairwise comparisons are corrupted or missing, and that seriation based spectral ranking is more robust to noise than other scoring methods. An additional benefit of the seriation formulation is that it allows us to solve semi-supervised ranking problems. Experiments on both synthetic and real datasets demonstrate that seriation based spectral ranking achieves competitive and in some cases superior performance compared to classical ranking methods.
Improved Multimodal Deep Learning with Variation of Information,Deep learning has been successfully applied to multimodal representation learning problems, with a common strategy to learning joint representations that are shared across multiple modalities on top of layers of modality-specific networks. Nonetheless, there still remains a question how to learn a good association between data modalities; in particular, a good generative model of multimodal data should be able to reason about missing data modality given the rest of data modalities. In this paper, we propose a novel multimodal representation learning framework that explicitly aims this goal. Rather than learning with maximum likelihood, we train the model to minimize the variation of information. We provide a theoretical insight why the proposed learning objective is sufficient to estimate the data-generating joint distribution of multimodal data. We apply our method to restricted Boltzmann machines and introduce learning methods based on contrastive divergence and multi-prediction training. In addition, we extend to deep networks with recurrent encoding structure to finetune the whole network. In experiments, we demonstrate the state-of-the-art visual recognition performance on MIR-Flickr database and PASCAL VOC 2007 database with and without text features.
A provable SVD-based algorithm for learning topics in dominant admixture corpus,Topic models, such as Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), posit that documents are drawn from admixtures of distributions over words, known as topics. The inference problem of recovering topics from such a collection of documents drawn from admixtures, is NP-hard. Making a strong assumption called separability, [4] gave the first provable algorithm for inference. For the widely used LDA model, [6] gave a provable algorithm using clever tensor-methods. But [4, 6] do not learn topic vectors with bounded $l_1$ error (a natural measure for probability vectors). Our aim is to develop a model which makes intuitive and empirically supported assumptions and to design an algorithm with natural, simple components such as SVD, which provably solves the inference problem for the model with bounded $l_1$ error. A topic in LDA and other models is essentially characterized by a group of co-occurring words. Motivated by this, we introduce topic specific Catchwords, a group of words which occur with strictly greater frequency in a topic than any other topic individually and are required to have high frequency together rather than individually. A major contribution of the paper is to show that under this more realistic assumption, which is empirically verified on real corpora, a singular value decomposition (SVD) based algorithm with a crucial pre-processing step of thresholding, can provably recover the topics from a collection of documents drawn from Dominant admixtures. Dominant admixtures are convex combination of distributions in which one distribution has a significantly higher contribution than the others. Apart from the simplicity of the algorithm, the sample complexity has near optimal dependence on $w_0$, the lowest probability that a topic is dominant, and is better than [4]. Empirical evidence shows that on several real world corpora, both Catchwords and Dominant admixture assumptions hold and the proposed algorithm substantially outperforms the state of the art [5].
Robust Kernel Density Estimation by Scaling and Projection in Hilbert Space,While robust parameter estimation has been well studied in parametric density estimation, there has been little investigation into robust density estimation in the nonparametric setting. We present a robust version of the popular kernel density estimator (KDE). As with other estimators, a robust version of the KDE is useful since sample contamination is a common issue with datasets. What ``robustness'' means for a nonparametric density estimate is not straightforward and is a topic we explore in this paper. To construct a robust KDE we scale the traditional KDE and project it to its nearest weighted KDE in the $L^2$ norm. Because the squared $L^2$ norm penalizes point-wise errors superlinearly this causes the weighted KDE to allocate more weight to high density regions. We demonstrate the robustness of the SPKDE with numerical experiments and a consistency result which shows that asymptotically the SPKDE recovers the uncontaminated density under sufficient conditions on the contamination.
Delay-Tolerant Algorithms for Asynchronous Distributed Online Learning,We analyze new online gradient descent algorithms for distributed systems with large delays between gradient computations and the corresponding updates. Using insights from adaptive gradient methods, we develop algorithms that adapt not only to the sequence of gradients, but also to the precise update delays that occur. We first give an impractical algorithm that achieves a regret bound that precisely quantifies the impact of the delays. We then analyze AdaptiveRevision, an algorithm that is efficiently implementable and achieves comparable guarantees. The key algorithmic technique is appropriately and efficiently revising the learning rate used for previous gradient steps. Experimental results show when the delays grow large (1000 updates or more), our new algorithms perform significantly better than standard adaptive gradient methods.
Sparse Multi-Task Reinforcement Learning,In multi-task reinforcement learning (MTRL), the objective is to simultaneously learn multiple tasks and exploit their similarity to improve the performance w.r.t.\ single-task learning. In this paper we investigate the case when all the tasks can be accurately represented in a linear approximation space using the same small subset of the original (large) set of features. This is equivalent to assuming that the weight vectors of the task value functions are \textit{jointly sparse}, i.e., the set of their non-zero components is small and it is shared across tasks. Building on existing results in multi-task regression, we develop two multi-task extensions of the fitted $Q$-iteration algorithm. While the first algorithm assumes that the tasks are jointly sparse in the given representation, the second one learns a transformation of the features in the attempt of finding a more sparse representation. For both algorithms we provide a sample complexity analysis and numerical simulations.
Projecting Markov Random Field Parameters for Fast Mixing,Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms are simple and extremely powerful techniques to sample from almost arbitrary distributions. The flaw in practice is that it can take a large and/or unknown amount of time to converge to the stationary distribution. This paper gives sufficient conditions to guarantee that univariate Gibbs sampling on Markov Random Fields (MRFs) will be fast mixing, in a precise sense. Further, an algorithm is given to project onto this set of fast-mixing parameters in the Euclidean norm. Following recent work, we give an example use of this to project in various divergence measures, comparing of univariate marginals obtained by sampling after projection to common variational methods and Gibbs sampling on the original parameters.
Algorithms for CVaR Optimization in MDPs,In many sequential decision-making problems we may want to manage risk by minimizing some measure of variability in costs in addition to minimizing a standard criterion. Conditional value-at-risk (CVaR) is a relatively new risk measure that addresses some of the shortcomings of the well-known variance-related risk measures, and because of its computational efficiencies has gained popularity in finance and operations research. In this paper, we consider the mean-CVaR optimization problem in MDPs. We first derive a formula for computing the gradient of this risk-sensitive objective function. We then devise policy gradient and actor-critic algorithms that each uses a specific method to estimate this gradient and updates the policy parameters in the descent direction. We establish the convergence of our algorithms to locally risk-sensitive optimal policies. Finally, we demonstrate the usefulness of our algorithms in an optimal stopping problem.
Learning a Concept Hierarchy from Multi-labeled Documents,While topic models can discover patterns of word usage in large corpora, it is difficult to meld this unsupervised structure with noisy, human-provided labels, especially when the label space is large. In this paper, we present a model-Label to Hierarchy (L2H)-that can induce a hierarchy of user-generated labels and the topics associated with those labels from a set of multi-labeled documents. The model is robust enough to account for missing labels from untrained, disparate annotators and provide an interpretable summary of an otherwise unwieldy label set. We show empirically the effectiveness of L2H in predicting held-out words and labels for unseen documents.
Global Belief Recursive Neural Networks,Recursive Neural Networks have recently obtained state of the art performance on several natural language processing tasks. However, because of their feedforward architecture they cannot correctly predict phrase or word labels that are determined by context. This is a problem in tasks such as aspect-specific sentiment classification which tries to, for instance, predict that the word Android is positive in the sentence Android beats iOS. We introduce global belief recursive neural networks (GB-RNNs) which are based on the idea of extending purely feedforward neural networks to include one feedbackward step during inference. This allows phrase level predictions and representations to give feedback to words. We show the effectiveness of this model on the task of contextual sentiment analysis. We also show that dropout can improve RNN training and that a combination of unsupervised and supervised word vector representations performs better than either alone. The feedbackward step improves F1 performance by 3% over the standard RNN on this task, obtains state-of-the-art performance on the SemEval 2013 challenge and can accurately predict the sentiment of specific entities.
Subspace Embeddings for the Polynomial Kernel,Sketching is a powerful dimensionality reduction tool for accelerating statistical learning algorithms. However, its applicability has been limited to a certain extent since the crucial ingredient, the so-called oblivious subspace embedding, can only be applied to data spaces with an explicit representation as the column span or row span of a matrix, while in many settings learning is done in a high-dimensional space implicitly defined by the data matrix via a kernel transformation. We propose the first {\em fast} oblivious subspace embeddings that are able to embed a space induced by a non-linear kernel {\em without} explicitly mapping the data to the high-dimensional space. In particular, we propose an embedding for mappings induced by the polynomial kernel. Using the subspace embeddings, we obtain the fastest known algorithms for computing an implicit low rank approximation of the higher-dimension mapping of the data matrix, and for computing an approximate kernel PCA of the data, as well as doing approximate kernel principal component regression.
Self-Adaptable Templates for Feature Coding,Hierarchical feed-forward networks have been successfully applied in object recognition. At each level of the hierarchy, features are extracted and encoded, followed by a pooling step. Within this processing pipeline, the common trend is to learn the feature coding templates, often referred as codebook entries, filters, or over-complete basis. Recently, an approach that apparently does not use templates has been shown to obtain very promising results. This is the second-order pooling (O2P). In this paper, we analyze O2P as a coding-pooling scheme. We find that at testing phase, O2P automatically adapts the feature coding templates to the input features, rather than using templates learned during the training phase. From this finding, we are able to bring common concepts of coding-pooling schemes to O2P, such as feature quantization. This allows for significant accuracy improvements of O2P in standard benchmarks of image classification, namely Caltech101 and VOC07.
SAGA: A Fast Incremental Gradient Method With Support for Non-Strongly Convex Composite Objectives,In this work we introduce a new fast incremental gradient method SAGA, in the spirit of SAG, SDCA, MISO and SVRG. SAGA improves on the theory behind SAG and SVRG, with better theoretical convergence rates, and support for composite objectives where a proximal operator is used on the regulariser. Unlike SDCA, SAGA supports non-strongly convex problems directly, and is adaptive to any inherent strong convexity of the problem. We give experimental results showing the effectiveness of our method.
Efficient Minimax Strategies for Square Loss Games,We consider online prediction problems where the loss between the prediction and the outcome is measured by the squared Euclidean distance and its generalization, the squared Mahalanobis distance. We derive the minimax solutions for the case where the prediction and action spaces are the simplex (this setup is sometimes called the Brier game) and the $\ell_2$ ball (this setup is related to Gaussian density estimation). We show that in both cases the value of each sub-game is a quadratic function of a simple statistic of the state, with coefficients that can be efficiently computed using an explicit recurrence relation. The resulting deterministic minimax strategy and randomized maximin strategy are linear functions of the statistic.
Quantized Estimation of Gaussian Sequence Models in Euclidean Balls,A central result in statistical theory is Pinsker's theorem, which characterizes the minimax rate in the normal means model of nonparametric estimation. In this paper, we present an extension to Pinsker's theorem where estimation is carried out under storage or communication constraints. In particular, we place limits on the number of bits used to encode an estimator, and analyze the excess risk in terms of this constraint, the signal size, and the noise level. We give sharp upper and lower bounds for the case of a Euclidean ball, which establishes the Pareto-optimal minimax tradeoff between storage and risk in this setting.
Constant Nullspace Strong Convexity and Fast Convergence of Proximal Methods under High-Dimensional Settings,State of the art statistical estimators for high-dimensional problems take the form of regularized, and hence non-smooth, convex programs. A key facet of thesestatistical estimation problems is that these are typically not strongly convex under a high-dimensional sampling regime when the Hessian matrix becomes rank-deficient. Under vanilla convexity however, proximal optimization methods attain only a sublinear rate. In this paper, we investigate a novel variant of strong convexity, which we call Constant Nullspace Strong Convexity (CNSC), where we require that the objective function be strongly convex only over a constant subspace. As we show, the CNSC condition is naturally satisfied by high-dimensional statistical estimators. We then analyze the behavior of proximal methods under this CNSC condition: we show global linear convergence of Proximal Gradient and local quadratic convergence of Proximal Newton Method, when the regularization function comprising the statistical estimator is decomposable. We corroborate our theory via numerical experiments, and show a qualitative difference in the convergence rates of the proximal algorithms when the loss function does satisfy the CNSC condition.
Weakly-supervised Discovery of Visual Pattern Configurations,The prominence of weakly labeled data gives rise to a growing demand for object detection methods that can cope with minimal supervision. We propose an approach that automatically identifies discriminative configurations of visual patterns that are characteristic of a given object class. We formulate the problem as a constrained submodular optimization problem and demonstrate the benefits of the discovered configurations in remedying mislocalizations and finding informative positive and negative training examples. Together, these lead to state-of-the-art weakly-supervised detection results on the challenging PASCAL VOC dataset.
Online Decision-Making in General Combinatorial Spaces,We study online combinatorial decision problems, where one must make sequential decisions in some combinatorial space without knowing in advance the cost of decisions on each trial; the goal is to minimize the total regret over some sequence of trials relative to the best fixed decision in hindsight. Such problems have been studied mostly in settings where decisions are represented by Boolean vectors and costs are linear in this representation. Here we study a general setting where costs may be linear in any suitable low-dimensional vector representation of elements of the decision space. We give a general algorithm for such problems that we call low-dimensional online mirror descent (LDOMD); the algorithm generalizes both the Component Hedge algorithm of Koolen et al. (2010), and a recent algorithm of Suehiro et al. (2012). Our study offers a unification and generalization of previous work, and emphasizes the role of the convex polytope arising from the vector representation of the decision space; while Boolean representations lead to 0-1 polytopes, more general vector representations lead to more general polytopes. We study several examples of both types of polytopes. Finally, we demonstrate the benefit of having a general framework for such problems via an application to an online transportation problem; the associated transportation polytopes generalize the Birkhoff polytope of doubly stochastic matrices, and the resulting algorithm generalizes the PermELearn algorithm of Helmbold and Warmuth (2009).
Learning Mixed Multinomial Logit Model from Ordinal Data,Motivated by generating personalized recommendations using ordinal (or preference) data, we study the question of learning a mixture of MultiNomial Logit (MNL) model, a parameterized class of distributions over permutations, from partial ordinal or preference data (e.g. pair-wise comparisons). Despite its long standing importance across disciplines including social choice, operations research and revenue management, little is known about this question. In case of single MNL models (no mixture), computationally and statistically tractable learning from pair-wise comparisons is feasible. However, even learning mixture of two MNL model is infeasible in general. Given this state of affairs, we seek conditions under which it is feasible to learn the mixture model in both computationally and statistically efficient manner. To that end, we present a sufficient condition as well as an efficient algorithm for learning mixed MNL models from partial preferences/comparisons data. In particular, a mixture of $r$ MNL components over $n$ objects can be learnt using samples whose size scales polynomially in $n$ and $r$ (concretely, $n^3 r^{3.5} \log^4 n$, with $r \ll n^{2/7}$ when the model parameters are sufficiently {\em incoherent}). The algorithm has two phases: first, learn the pair-wise marginals for each component using tensor decomposition; second, learn the model parameters for each component using RankCentrality introduced by Negahban et al. In the process of proving these results, we obtain a generalization of existing analysis for tensor decomposition to a more realistic regime where only partial information about each sample is available.
Probabilistic Differential Dynamic Programming,We present a data-driven, probabilistic trajectory optimization framework for systems with unknown dynamics, called Probabilistic Differential Dynamic Programming (PDDP). PDDP takes into account uncertainty explicitly for dynamics models using Gaussian processes (GPs). Based on the second-order local approximation of the value function, PDDP performs Dynamic Programming around a nominal trajectory in Gaussian belief spaces. Different from typical gradient-based policy search methods, PDDP does not require a policy parameterization and learns a locally optimal, time-varying control policy. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm using two nontrivial tasks. Compared with the classical DDP and a state-of-the-art GP-based policy search method, PDDP offers a superior combination of data-efficiency, learning speed, and applicability.
Learning the Learning Rate for Prediction with Expert Advice,Most standard algorithms for prediction with expert advice depend on a parameter called the learning rate. This learning rate needs to be large enough to fit the data well, but small enough to prevent overfitting. For the exponential weights algorithm, a sequence of prior work has established theoretical guarantees for higher and higher data-dependent tunings of the learning rate, which allow for increasingly aggressive learning. But in practice such theoretical tunings often still perform worse (as measured by their regret) than ad hoc tuning with an even higher learning rate. To close the gap between theory and practice we introduce an approach to learn the learning rate. Up to a factor that is at most (poly)logarithmic in the number of experts and the inverse of the learning rate, our method performs as well as if we would know the empirically best learning rate from a large range that includes both conservative small values and values that are much higher than those for which formal guarantees were previously available. Our method employs a grid of learning rates, yet runs in linear time regardless of the size of the grid.
Robust Bayesian Max-Margin Clustering,We present max-margin Bayesian clustering (BMC), a general and robust framework that incorporates the max-margin criterion into Bayesian clustering models, as well as two concrete models of BMC to demonstrate its flexibility and effectiveness in dealing with different clustering tasks. The Dirichlet process max-margin Gaussian mixture is a nonparametric Bayesian clustering model that relaxes the underlying Gaussian assumption of Dirichlet process Gaussian mixtures by incorporating max-margin posterior constraints, and is able to infer the number of clusters from data. We further extend the ideas to present max-margin clustering topic model, which can learn the latent topic representation of each document while at the same time cluster documents in the max-margin fashion. Extensive experiments are performed on a number of real datasets, and the results indicate superior clustering performance of our methods compared to related baselines.
On the Convergence Rate of Decomposable Submodular Function Minimization,Submodular functions describe a variety of discrete problems in machine learning, signal processing, and computer vision. However, minimizing submodular functions poses a number of algorithmic challenges. Recent work introduced an easy-to-use, parallelizable algorithm for minimizing submodular functions that decompose as the sum of "simple" submodular functions. Empirically, this algorithm performs extremely well, but no theoretical analysis was given. In this paper, we show that the algorithm converges linearly, and we provide upper and lower bounds on the rate of convergence. Our proof relies on the geometry of submodular polyhedra and draws on results from spectral graph theory.
General Table Completion using a Bayesian Nonparametric Model,Even though heterogeneous databases can be found in a broad variety of applications, there exists a lack of tools for estimating missing data in such databases. In this paper, we provide an efficient and robust table completion tool, based on a Bayesian nonparametric latent feature model. In particular, we propose a general observation model for the Indian buffet process (IBP) adapted to mixed continuous (real-valued and positive real-valued) and discrete (categorical, ordinal and count) observations. Then, we propose an inference algorithm that scales linearly with the number of observations. Finally, our experiments over five real databases show that the proposed approach provides more robust and accurate estimates than the standard IBP and the Bayesian probabilistic matrix factorization with Gaussian observations.
Iterative Neural Autoregressive Distribution Estimator NADE-k,Training of the neural autoregressive density estimator (NADE) can be viewed as doing one step of probabilistic inference on missing values in data. We propose a new model that extends this inference scheme to multiple steps, arguing that it is easier to learn to improve a reconstruction in $k$ steps rather than to learn to reconstruct in a single inference step. The proposed model is an unsupervised building block for deep learning that combines the desirable properties of NADE and multi-predictive training: (1) Its test likelihood can be computed analytically, (2) it is easy to generate independent samples from it, and (3) it uses an inference engine that is a superset of variational inference for Boltzmann machines. The proposed NADE-k is competitive with the state-of-the-art in density estimation on the two datasets tested.
Expectation Backpropagation: Parameter-Free Training of Multilayer Neural Networks with Continuous or Discrete Weights,Multilayer Neural Networks (MNNs) are commonly trained using gradient descent-based methods, such as BackPropagation (BP). Inference in probabilistic graphical models is often done using variational Bayes methods, such as Expectation Propagation (EP). We show how an EP based approach can also be used to train deterministic MNNs. Specifically, we approximate the posterior of the weights given the data using a mean-field factorized distribution, in an online setting. Using online EP and the central limit theorem we find an analytical approximation to the Bayes update of this posterior, as well as the resulting Bayes estimates of the weights and outputs. Despite a different origin, the resulting algorithm, Expectation BackPropagation (EBP), is very similar to BP in form and efficiency. However, it has several additional advantages: (1) Training is parameter-free, given initial conditions (prior) and the MNN architecture. This is useful for large-scale problems, where parameter tuning is a major challenge. (2) The weights can be restricted to have discrete values. This is especially useful for implementing trained MNNs in precision limited hardware chips, thus improving their speed and energy efficiency by several orders of magnitude. We test the EBP algorithm numerically in eight binary text classification tasks. In all tasks, EBP outperforms: (1) standard BP with the optimal constant learning rate (2) previously reported state of the art. Interestingly, EBP-trained MNNs with binary weights usually perform better than MNNs with continuous (real) weights - if we average the MNN output using the inferred posterior.
An Autoencoder Approach to Learning Bilingual Word Representations,Cross-language learning allows us to use training data from one language to build models for a different language. Many approaches to bilingual learning require that we have word-level alignment of sentences from parallel corpora. In this work we explore the use of autoencoder-based methods for cross-language learning of vectorial word representations that are aligned between two languages, while not relying on word-level alignments. We show that by simply learning to reconstruct the bag-of-words representations of aligned sentences, within and between languages, we can in fact learn high-quality representations and do without word alignments. We empirically investigate the success of our approach on the problem of cross-language text classification, where a classifier trained on a given language (e.g., English) must learn to generalize to a different language (e.g., German). In experiments on 3 language pairs, we show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance, outperforming a method exploiting word alignments and a strong machine translation baseline.
A framework for studying synaptic plasticity with neural spike train data,Learning and memory in the brain are implemented by complex, time-varying changes in neural circuitry. The computational rules according to which synaptic weights change over time are the subject of much research, and are not precisely understood. Until recently, limitations in experimental methods have made it challenging to test hypotheses about synaptic plasticity on a large scale. However, as such data become available and these barriers are lifted, it becomes necessary to develop analysis techniques to validate plasticity models. Here, we present a highly extensible framework for modeling arbitrary synaptic plasticity rules on spike train data in populations of interconnected neurons. We treat synaptic weights as a (potentially nonlinear) dynamical system embedded in a fully-Bayesian generalized linear model (GLM). In addition, we provide an algorithm for inferring synaptic weight trajectories alongside the parameters of the GLM and of the learning rules. Using this method, we perform model comparison of two proposed variants of the well-known spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) rule, where nonlinear effects play a substantial role. On synthetic data generated from the biophysical simulator NEURON, we show that we can recover the weight trajectories, the pattern of connectivity, and the underlying learning rules.
Inferring sparse representations of continuous signals with continuous orthogonal matching pursuit,Many signals, such as spike trains recorded in multi-channel electrophysiological recordings, may be represented as the sparse sum of translated and scaled copies of waveforms whose timing and amplitudes are of interest. From the aggregate signal, one may seek to estimate the identities, amplitudes, and translations of the waveforms that compose the signal. Here we present a fast method for recovering these identities, amplitudes, and translations. The method involves greedily selecting component waveforms and then refining estimates of their amplitudes and translations, moving iteratively between these steps in a process analogous to the well-known Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP) algorithm. Our approach for modeling translations borrows from Continuous Basis Pursuit (CBP), which we extend in several ways: by selecting a subspace that optimally captures translated copies of the waveforms, replacing the convex optimization problem with a greedy approach, and moving to the Fourier domain to more precisely estimate time shifts. We test the resulting method, which we call Continuous Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (COMP), on simulated and neural data, where it shows gains over CBP in both speed and accuracy.
Magnitude-sensitive preference formation`,Our understanding of the neural computations that underlie the ability of animals to choose among options has advanced through a synthesis of computational modeling, brain imaging and behavioral choice experiments. Yet, there remains a gulf between theories of preference learning and accounts of the real, economic choices that humans face in daily life, choices that are usually between some amount of money and an item. In this paper, we develop a theory of magnitude-sensitive preference learning that permits an agent to rationally infer its preferences for items compared with money options of different magnitudes. We show how this theory yields classical and anomalous supply-demand curves and predicts choices for a large panel of risky lotteries. Accurate replications of such phenomena without recourse to utility functions suggest that the theory proposed is both psychologically realistic and econometrically viable.
Spectral k-Support Norm Regularization,The $k$-support norm has successfully been applied to sparse vector prediction problems. We observe that it belongs to a wider class of norms, which we call the box-norms. Within this framework we derive an efficient algorithm to compute the proximity operator of the squared norm, improving upon the original method for the $k$-support norm. We extend the norms from the vector to the matrix setting and we introduce the spectral $k$-support norm. We study its properties and show that it is closely related to the multitask learning cluster norm. We apply the norms to real and synthetic matrix completion datasets. Our findings indicate that spectral $k$-support norm regularization gives state of the art performance, consistently improving over trace norm regularization and the matrix elastic net.
Parallel Direction Method of Multipliers,We consider the problem of minimizing block-separable convex functions subject to linear constraints. While the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) for two-block linear constraints has been intensively studied both theoretically and empirically, in spite of some preliminary work, effective generalizations of ADMM to multiple blocks is still unclear. In this paper, we propose a parallel randomized block coordinate method named Parallel Direction Method of Multipliers (PDMM) to solve the optimization problems with multi-block linear constraints. PDMM randomly updates some blocks in parallel, behaving like parallel randomized block coordinate descent. We establish the global convergence and the iteration complexity for PDMM with constant step size. We also show that PDMM can do randomized block coordinate descent on overlapping blocks. Experimental results show that PDMM performs better than state-of-the-arts methods in two applications, robust principal component analysis and overlapping group lasso.
Scalable Kernel Methods via Doubly Stochastic Gradients,The general perception is that kernel methods are not scalable, so neural nets become the choice for large-scale nonlinear learning problems. Have we tried hard enough for kernel methods? In this paper, we propose an approach that scales up kernel methods using a novel concept called ``doubly stochastic functional gradients''. Based on the fact that many kernel methods can be expressed as convex optimization problems, our approach solves the optimization problems by making two unbiased stochastic approximations to the functional gradient---one using random training points and another using random features associated with the kernel---and performing descent steps with this noisy functional gradient. Our algorithm is simple, need no commit to a preset number of random features, and allows the flexibility of the function class to grow as we see more incoming data in the streaming setting. We demonstrate that a function learned by this procedure after t iterations converges to the optimal function in the reproducing kernel Hilbert space in rate O(1/t), and achieves a generalization bound of O(1/\sqrt{t}). Our approach can readily scale kernel methods up to the regimes which are dominated by neural nets. We show competitive performances of our approach as compared to neural nets in datasets such as 2.3 million energy materials from MolecularSpace, 8 million handwritten digits from MNIST, and 1 million photos from ImageNet using convolution features.
Pre-training of Recurrent Neural Networks via Linear Autoencoders,We propose a pre-training technique for recurrent neural networks based on linear autoencoder networks for sequences, i.e. linear dynamical systems modelling the target sequences. We start by giving a closed form solution for the definition of the optimal weights of a linear autoencoder given a training set of sequences. This solution, however, is computationally very demanding, so we suggest a procedure to get an approximate solution for a given number of hidden units. The weights obtained for the linear autoencoder are then used as initial weights for the input-to-hidden connections of a recurrent neural network, which is then trained on the desired task. Using four well known datasets of sequences of polyphonic music, we show that the proposed pre-training approach is highly effective, since it allows to largely improve the state of the art results on all the considered datasets.
Predicting Useful Neighborhoods for Lazy Local Learning,Lazy local learning methods train a classifier "on the fly" at test time, using only a subset of the training instances that are most relevant to the novel test example. The goal is to tailor the classifier to the properties of the data surrounding the test example. Existing methods assume that the instances most useful for building the local model are strictly those closest to the test example. However, this fails to account for the fact that the success of the resulting classifier depends on the full distribution of selected training instances. Rather than simply gather the test example's nearest neighbors, we propose to predict the subset of training data that is jointly relevant to training its local model. We develop an approach to discover patterns between queries and their "good" neighborhoods using large-scale multi-label classification with compressed sensing. Given a novel test point, we estimate both the composition and size of the training subset likely to yield an accurate local model. We demonstrate the approach on image classification tasks on SUN and aPascal and show it outperforms traditional global and local approaches.
Structure learning of antiferromagnetic Ising models,In this paper we investigate the computational complexity of learning the graph structure underlying a discrete undirected graphical model from i.i.d. samples. Our first result is an unconditional computational lower bound of $\Omega (p^{d/2})$ for learning general graphical models on $p$ nodes of maximum degree $d$, for the class of statistical algorithms recently introduced by Feldman et al. The construction is related to the notoriously difficult learning parities with noise problem in computational learning theory. Our lower bound shows that the $\widetilde O(p^{d+2})$ runtime required by Bresler, Mossel, and Sly's exhaustive-search algorithm cannot be significantly improved without restricting the class of models. Aside from structural assumptions on the graph such as it being a tree, hypertree, tree-like, etc., most recent papers on structure learning assume that the model has the correlation decay property. Indeed, focusing on ferromagnetic Ising models, Bento and Montanari showed that all known low-complexity algorithms fail to learn simple graphs when the interaction strength exceeds a number related to the correlation decay threshold. Our second set of results gives a class of repelling (antiferromagnetic) models that have the \emph{opposite} behavior: very strong repelling allows efficient learning in time $\widetilde O(p^2)$. We provide an algorithm whose performance interpolates between $\widetilde O(p^2)$ and $\widetilde O(p^{d+2})$ depending on the strength of the repulsion.
Deep Fragment Embeddings for Bidirectional Image Sentence Mapping,We introduce a model for bidirectional retrieval of images and sentences through a deep, multi-modal embedding of visual and natural language data. Unlike previous models that directly map images or sentences into a common embedding space, our model works on a finer level and embeds fragments of images (objects) and fragments of sentences (typed dependency tree relations) into a common space. We then introduce a structured max-margin objective that allows our model to explicitly associate these fragments across modalities. Extensive experimental evaluation shows that reasoning on both the global level of images and sentences and the finer level of their respective fragments improves performance on image-sentence retrieval tasks. Additionally, our model provides interpretable predictions for the image-sentence retrieval task since the inferred inter-modal alignment of fragments is explicit.
Sparse Bayesian structure learning with dependent relevance determination prior,In many problem settings, parameter vectors are not merely sparse, but dependent in such a way that non-zero coefficients tend to cluster together. We refer to this form of dependency as region sparsity. Classical sparse regression methods, such as the lasso and automatic relevance determination (ARD), model parameters as independent a priori, and therefore do not exploit such dependencies. Here we introduce a hierarchical model for smooth, region-sparse weight vectors and tensors in a linear regression setting. Our approach represents a hierarchical extension of the relevance determination framework, where we add a transformed Gaussian process to model the dependencies between the prior variances of regression weights. We combine this with a structured model of the prior variances of Fourier coefficients, which eliminates unnecessary high frequencies. The resulting prior encourages weights to be region-sparse in two different bases simultaneously. We develop efficient approximate inference methods and show substantial improvements over comparable methods (e.g., group lasso and smooth RVM) for both simulated and real datasets from brain imaging.
Greedy Subspace Clustering,We consider the problem of subspace clustering: given points that lie on or near the union of many low-dimensional linear subspaces, recover the subspaces. To this end, one first identifies sets of points close to the same subspace and uses the sets to estimate the subspaces. As the geometric structure of the clusters (linear subspaces) forbids proper performance of general distance based approaches such as K-means, many model-specific methods have been proposed. In this paper, we provide new simple and efficient algorithms for this problem. Our statistical analysis shows that the algorithms are guaranteed exact (perfect) clustering performance under certain conditions on the number of points and the affinity be- tween subspaces. These conditions are weaker than those considered in the standard statistical literature. Experimental results on synthetic data generated from the standard unions of subspaces model demonstrate our theory. We also show that our algorithm performs competitively against state-of-the-art algorithms on real-world applications such as motion segmentation and face clustering, with much simpler implementation and lower computational cost.
Simple MAP Inference via Low-Rank Relaxations,We focus on the problem of maximum a posteriori (MAP) inference in Markov random fields with binary variables and pairwise interactions. For this common subclass of inference tasks, we consider low-rank relaxations that interpolate between the discrete problem and its full-rank semidefinite relaxation, followed by randomized rounding. We develop new theoretical bounds studying the effect of rank, showing that as the rank grows, the relaxed objective increases but saturates, and that the fraction in objective value retained by the rounded discrete solution decreases. In practice, we show two algorithms for optimizing the low-rank objectives which are simple to implement, enjoy ties to the underlying theory, and outperform existing approaches on benchmark MAP inference tasks.
Fast Sampling-Based Inference in Balanced Neuronal Networks,Multiple lines of evidence support the notion that the brain performs probabilistic inference in multiple cognitive domains, including perception and decision making. There is also evidence that probabilistic inference may be implemented in the brain through the (quasi-)stochastic activity of neural circuits, producing samples from the appropriate posterior distributions, effectively implementing a Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm. However, time becomes a fundamental bottleneck in such sampling-based probabilistic representations: the quality of inferences depends on how fast the neural circuit generates new, uncorrelated samples from its stationary distribution (the posterior). We explore this bottleneck in a simple, linear-Gaussian latent variable model, in which posterior sampling can be achieved by stochastic neural networks with linear dynamics. The well-known Langevin sampling (LS) recipe, so far the only sampling algorithm for continuous variables of which a neural implementation has been suggested, naturally fits into this dynamical framework. However, we first show analytically and through simulations that the symmetry of the synaptic weight matrix implied by LS yields critically slow mixing when the posterior is high-dimensional. Next, using methods from control theory, we construct and inspect networks that are optimally fast, and hence orders of magnitude faster than LS, while being far more biologically plausible. In these networks, strong -- but transient -- selective amplification of external noise generates the spatially correlated activity fluctuations prescribed by the posterior. Intriguingly, although a detailed balance of excitation and inhibition is dynamically maintained, detailed balance of Markov chain steps in the resulting sampler is violated, consistent with recent findings on how statistical irreversibility can overcome the speed limitation of random walks in other domains.
Elementary Estimators for Graphical Models,We propose a class of closed-form estimators for sparsity-structured graphical models, expressed as exponential family distributions, under high-dimensional settings. Our approach builds on observing the precise manner in which the classical graphical model MLE ``breaks down'' under high-dimensional settings. Our estimator uses a carefully constructed, well-defined and closed-form backward map, and then performs thresholding operations to ensure the desired sparsity structure. We provide a rigorous statistical analysis that shows that surprisingly our simple class of estimators recovers the same asymptotic convergence rates as those of the $\ell_1$-regularized MLEs that are much more difficult to compute. We corroborate this statistical performance, as well as significant computational advantages via simulations of both discrete and Gaussian graphical models.
On the Computational Efficiency of Training Neural Networks,It is well-known that neural networks are computationally hard to train. On the other hand, in practice, modern day neural networks are trained efficiently using SGD and a variety of tricks that include different activation functions (e.g. ReLU), over-specification (i.e., train networks which are larger than needed), and regularization. In this paper we revisit the computational complexity of training neural networks from a modern perspective. We provide both positive and negative results, some of them yield new provably efficient and practical algorithms for training neural networks.
Weighted importance sampling for off-policy learning with linear function approximation,Importance sampling is an essential component of off-policy model-free reinforcement learning algorithms. However, its most effective variant, \emph{weighted} importance sampling, does not carry over easily to function approximation and, because of this, it is not utilized in existing off-policy learning algorithms. In this paper, we take two steps toward bridging this gap. First, we show that weighted importance sampling can be viewed as a special case of weighting the error of individual training samples, and that this weighting has theoretical and empirical benefits similar to those of weighted importance sampling. Second, we show that these benefits extend to a new weighted-importance-sampling version of off-policy LSTD(lambda). We show empirically that our new WIS-LSTD(lambda) algorithm can result in much more rapid and reliable convergence than conventional off-policy LSTD(lambda) (Yu 2010, Bertsekas & Yu 2009).
On Iterative Hard Thresholding Methods for High-dimensional M-Estimation,The use of M-estimators in generalized linear regression models in high dimensional settings requires risk minimization with hard L_0 constraints. Of the known methods, the class of projected gradient descent (also known as iterative hard thresholding (IHT)) methods is known to offer the fastest and most scalable solutions. However, the current state-of-the-art is only able to analyze these methods in extremely restrictive settings which do not hold in high dimensional statistical models. In this work we bridge this gap by providing the first analysis for IHT-style methods in the high dimensional statistical setting. Our bounds are tight and match known minimax lower bounds. Our results rely on a general analysis framework that enables us to analyze several popular hard thresholding style algorithms (such as HTP, CoSaMP, SP) in the high dimensional regression setting. Finally, we extend our analysis to the problem of low-rank matrix recovery.
Dependent nonparametric trees for dynamic hierarchical clustering,Hierarchical clustering methods offer an intuitive and powerful way to model a wide variety of data sets. However, the assumption of a fixed hierarchy is often overly restrictive when working with data generated over a period of time: We expect both the structure of our hierarchy, and the parameters of the clusters, to evolve with time. In this paper, we present a distribution over collections of time-dependent, infinite-dimensional trees that can be used to model evolving hierarchies, and present an efficient and scalable algorithm for performing approximate inference in such a model. We demonstrate the efficacy of our model and inference algorithm on both synthetic data and real-world document corpora.
Articulated Pose Estimation by a Graphical Model with Image Dependent Pairwise Relations,We present a method for estimating articulated human pose from a single static image based on a graphical model with novel pairwise relations that make adaptive use of local image measurements. More precisely, we specify a graphical model for human pose which exploits the fact the local image measurements can be used both to detect parts (or joints) and also to predict the spatial relationships between them (Image Dependent Pairwise Relations). These spatial relationships are represented by a mixture model. We use Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (DCNNs) to learn conditional probabilities for the presence of parts and their spatial relationships within image patches. Hence our model combines the representational flexibility of graphical models with the efficiency and statistical power of DCNNs. Our method significantly outperforms the state of the art methods on the LSP and FLIC datasets and also performs very well on the Buffy dataset without any training.
Learning with Fredholm Kernels,In this paper we propose a framework for supervised and semi-supervised learning based on reformulating the learning problem as a regularized Fredholm integral equation. Our approach fits naturally into the kernel framework and can be interpreted as constructing new data-dependent kernels, which we call Fredholm kernels. We proceed to discuss the "noise assumption" for semi-supervised learning and provide evidence evidence both theoretical and experimental that Fredholm kernels can effectively utilize unlabeled data under the noise assumption. We demonstrate that methods based on Fredholm learning show very competitive performance in the standard semi-supervised learning setting.
Localized Data Fusion for Kernel k-Means Clustering with Application to Cancer Biology,In many modern applications from, for example, bioinformatics and computer vision, samples have multiple feature representations coming from different data sources. Multiview learning algorithms try to exploit all these available information to obtain a better learner in such scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel multiple kernel learning algorithm that extends kernel k-means clustering to the multiview setting, which combines kernels calculated on the views in a localized way to better capture sample-specific characteristics of the data. We demonstrate the better performance of our localized data fusion approach on a human colon and rectal cancer data set by clustering patients. Our method finds more relevant prognostic patient groups than global data fusion methods when we evaluate the results with respect to three commonly used clinical biomarkers.
Dimensionality Reduction with Subspace Structure Preservation,Modeling data as being sampled from a union of independent subspaces has been widely applied to a number of real world applications. However, dimensionality reduction approaches that theoretically preserve this independence assumption have not been well studied. Our key contribution is to show that $2K$ projection vectors are sufficient for the independence preservation of any $K$ class data sampled from a union of independent subspaces. It is this non-trivial observation that we use for designing our dimensionality reduction technique. In this paper, we propose a novel dimensionality reduction algorithm that theoretically preserves this structure for a given dataset. We support our theoretical analysis with empirical results on both synthetic and real world data achieving \textit{state-of-the-art} results compared to popular dimensionality reduction techniques.
Blossom Tree Graphical Models,We combine the ideas behind trees and Gaussian graphical models to form a new nonparametric family of graphical models. Our approach is to attach nonparanormal "blossoms", with arbitrary graphs, to a collection of nonparametric trees. The tree edges are chosen to connect variables that most violate joint Gaussianity. The non-tree edges are partitioned into disjoint groups, and assigned to tree nodes using a nonparametric partial correlation statistic. A nonparanormal blossom is then "grown" for each group using established methods based on the graphical lasso. The result is a factorization with respect to the union of the tree branches and blossoms, defining a high-dimensional joint density that can be efficiently estimated and evaluated on test points. Theoretical properties and experiments with simulated and real data demonstrate the effectiveness of blossom trees.
Restricted Boltzmann machines modeling human choice,We extend the multinomial logit model to represent some of the empirical phenomena that are frequently observed in the choices made by humans. These phenomena include the similarity effect, the attraction effect, and the compromise effect. We formally quantify the strength of these phenomena that can be represented by our choice model, which illuminates the flexibility of our choice model. We then show that our choice model can be represented as a restricted Boltzmann machine and that its parameters can be learned effectively from data. Our numerical experiments with real data of human choices suggest that we can train our choice model in such a way that it represents the typical phenomena of choice.
A Representation Theory for Ranking Functions,This paper presents a representation theory for permutation-valued functions, which in their general form can also be called listwise ranking functions. Pointwise ranking functions assign a score to each object independently, without taking into account the other objects under consideration; whereas listwise loss functions evaluate the set of scores assigned to all objects as a whole. In many supervised learning to rank tasks, it might be of interest to use listwise ranking functions instead; in particular, the Bayes Optimal ranking functions might themselves be listwise, especially if the loss function is listwise. A key caveat to using listwise ranking functions has been the lack of an appropriate representation theory for such functions. We show that a natural symmetricity assumption that we call exchangeability allows us to explicitly characterize the set of such exchangeable listwise ranking functions. Our analysis draws from the theories of tensor analysis, functional analysis and De Finetti theorems. We also present experiments using a novel reranking method motivated by our representation theory.
Parallel Feature Selection Inspired by Group Testing,This paper presents a parallel feature selection method for classification that scales up to very high dimensions and large data sizes. Our original method is inspired by group testing theory, under which the feature selection procedure consists of a collection of randomized tests to be performed in parallel. Each test corresponds to a subset of features, for which a scoring function may be applied to measure the relevance of the features in a classification task. We develop a general theory providing sufficient conditions under which true features are guaranteed to be correctly identified. Superior performance of our method is demonstrated on a challenging relation extraction task from a very large data set that have both redundant features and sample size in the order of millions. We present comprehensive comparisons with state-of-the-art feature selection methods on a range of data sets, for which our method exhibits competitive performance in terms of running time and accuracy. Moreover, it also yields substantial speedup when used as a pre-processing step for most other existing methods.
Dynamic Rank Factor Model for Text Streams,We propose a semi-parametric and dynamic rank factor model for topic modeling, capable of (1) discovering topic prevalence over time, and (2) learning contemporary multi-scale dependence structures, providing topic and word correlations as a byproduct. The high-dimensional and time-evolving ordinal/rank observations (such as word counts), after an arbitrary monotone transformation, are well accommodated through an underlying dynamic sparse factor model. The framework naturally admits heavy-tailed innovations, capable of inferring abrupt temporal jumps in the importance of topics. Posterior inference is performed through straightforward Gibbs sampling, based on the forward-filtering backward-sampling algorithm. Moreover, an efficient data subsampling scheme is leveraged to speed up inference on massive datasets. The modeling framework is illustrated on two real datasets: the US State of the Union Address and the JSTOR collection from Science.
Kernel Mean Estimation via Spectral Filtering,The problem of estimating the kernel mean in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) is central to kernel methods in that it is used by classical approaches (e.g., when centering a kernel PCA matrix), and it also forms the core inference step of modern kernel methods (e.g., kernel-based non-parametric tests) that rely on embedding probability distributions in RKHSs. Previous work [1] has shown that shrinkage can help in constructing better estimators of the kernel mean than the empirical estimator. The present paper studies the consistency and admissibility of the estimators in [1], and proposes a wider class of shrinkage estimators that improve upon the empirical estimator by considering appropriate basis functions. Using the kernel PCA basis, we show that some of these estimators can be constructed using spectral filtering algorithms which are shown to be consistent under some technical assumptions. Our theoretical analysis also reveals a fundamental connection to the kernel-based supervised learning framework. The proposed estimators are simple to implement and perform well in practice.
Consistency of Spectral Partitioning of Uniform Hypergraphs under Planted Partition Model,Spectral graph partitioning methods have received significant attention from both practitioners and theorists in computer science. Some notable studies have been carried out regarding the behavior of these methods for infinitely large sample size (von Luxburg et al., 2008; Rohe et al., 2011), which provide sufficient confidence to practitioners about the effectiveness of these methods. On the other hand, recent developments in computer vision have led to a plethora of applications, where the model deals with multi-way affinity relations and can be posed as uniform hyper-graphs. In this paper, we view these models as random m-uniform hypergraphs and establish the consistency of spectral algorithm in this general setting. We develop a planted partition model or stochastic blockmodel for such problems using higher order tensors, present a spectral technique suited for the purpose and study its large sample behavior. The analysis reveals that the algorithm is consistent for m-uniform hypergraphs for larger values of m, and also the rate of convergence improves for increasing m. Our result provides the first theoretical evidence that establishes the importance of m-way affinities.
A Safe Screening Rule for Sparse Logistic Regression,The l1-regularized logistic regression (or sparse logistic regression) is a widely used method for simultaneous classification and feature selection. Although many recent efforts have been devoted to its efficient implementation, its application to high dimensional data still poses significant challenges. In this paper, we present a fast and effective sparse logistic regression screening rule (Slores) to identify the zero components in the solution vector, which may lead to a substantial reduction in the number of features to be entered to the optimization. An appealing feature of Slores is that the data set needs to be scanned only once to run the screening and its computational cost is negligible compared to that of solving the sparse logistic regression problem. Moreover, Slores is independent of solvers for sparse logistic regression, thus Slores can be integrated with any existing solver to improve the efficiency. We have evaluated Slores using high-dimensional data sets from different applications. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that Slores outperforms the existing state-of-the-art screening rules and the efficiency of solving sparse logistic regression is improved by one magnitude in general.
Distributed Parameter Estimation in Probabilistic Graphical Models,This paper presents foundational theoretical results on distributed parameter estimation for undirected probabilistic graphical models. It introduces a general condition on composite likelihood decompositions of these models which guarantees the global consistency of distributed estimators, provided the local estimators are consistent.
Multiscale Fields of Patterns,We describe a framework for defining high-order image models that can be used in a variety of applications. The approach involves modeling local patterns in a multiscale representation of an image. Local properties of a coarsened image reflect non-local properties of the original image. In the case of binary images local properties are defined by the binary patterns observed over small neighborhoods around each pixel. With the multiscale representation we capture the frequency of patterns observed at different scales of resolution. This framework leads to expressive priors that depend on a relatively small number of parameters. For inference and learning we use an MCMC method for block sampling with very large blocks. We evaluate the approach with two example applications. One involves contour detection. The other involves binary segmentation.
On a Theory of Nonparametric Pairwise Similarity for Clustering: Connecting Clustering to Classification,Pairwise clustering methods partition the data space into clusters by the pairwise similarity between data points. The success of pairwise clustering largely depends on the pairwise similarity function defined over the data points, where kernel similarity is broadly used. In this paper, we present a novel pairwise clustering framework by bridging the gap between clustering and multi-class classification. This pairwise clustering framework learns an unsupervised nonparametric classifier from each data partition, and search for the optimal partition of the data by minimizing the generalization error of the learned classifiers associated with the data partitions. We consider two nonparametric classifiers in this framework, i.e. the nearest neighbor classifier and the plug-in classifier. Modeling the underlying data distribution by nonparametric kernel density estimation, the generalization error bounds for both unsupervised nonparametric classifiers are the sum of nonparametric pairwise similarity terms between the data points for the purpose of clustering. Under uniform distribution, the nonparametric similarity terms induced by both unsupervised classifiers exhibit a well known form of kernel similarity. We also prove that the generalization error bound for the unsupervised plug-in classifier is asymptotically equal to the weighted volume of cluster boundary for Low Density Separation, a widely used criteria for semi-supervised learning and clustering. Based on the derived nonparametric pairwise similarity using the plug-in classifier, we propose a new nonparametric exemplar-based clustering method with enhanced discriminative capability, whose superiority is evidenced by the experimental results.
Top Rank Optimization in Linear Time,Bipartite ranking aims to learn a real-valued ranking function that orders positive instances before negative instances. Recent efforts of bipartite ranking are focused on optimizing ranking accuracy at the top of the ranked list. Most existing approaches are either to optimize task specific metrics or to extend the rank loss by emphasizing more on the error associated with the top ranked instances, leading to a high computational cost that is super-linear in the number of training instances. We propose a highly efficient approach, titled TopPush, for optimizing accuracy at the top that has computational complexity linear in the number of training instances. We present a novel analysis that bounds the generalization error for the top ranked instances for the proposed approach. Empirical study shows that the proposed approach is highly competitive to the state-of-the-art approaches and is 10-100 times faster.
Zeta Hull Pursuits: Learning Nonconvex Data Hulls,Selecting a small informative subset from a given dataset, also called column sampling, has drawn much attention in machine learning. For incorporating structured data information into column sampling, research efforts were devoted to the cases where data points are fitted with clusters, simplices, or general convex hulls. This paper aims to study nonconvex hull learning which has rarely been investigated in the literature. In order to learn data-adaptive nonconvex hulls, a novel approach is proposed based on a graph-theoretic measure that leverages graph cycles to characterize the structural complexities of input data points. Employing this measure, we present a greedy algorithmic framework, dubbed Zeta Hulls, to perform structured column sampling. The process of pursuing a Zeta hull involves the computation of matrix inverse. To accelerate the matrix inversion computation and reduce its space complexity as well, we exploit a low-rank approximation to the graph adjacency matrix by using an efficient anchor graph technique. Extensive experimental results show that data representation learned by Zeta Hulls can achieve state-of-the-art accuracy in text and image classification tasks.
Time--Data Tradeoffs by Aggressive Smoothing,This paper proposes a tradeoff between sample complexity and computation time that applies to statistical estimators based on convex optimization. As the amount of data increases, we can smooth optimization problems more and more aggressively to achieve accurate estimates more quickly. This work provides theoretical and experimental evidence of this tradeoff for a class of regularized linear inverse problems.
Zero-shot recognition with unreliable attributes,In principle, zero-shot learning makes it possible to train an object recognition model simply by specifying the category's attributes. For example, with classifiers for generic attributes like striped and four-legged, one can construct a classifier for the zebra category by enumerating which properties it possesses --- even without providing zebra training images. In practice, however, the standard zero-shot paradigm suffers because attribute predictions in novel images are hard to get right. We propose a novel random forest approach to train zero-shot models that explicitly accounts for the unreliability of attribute predictions. By leveraging statistics about each attributes error tendencies, our method obtains more robust discriminative models for the unseen classes. We further devise extensions to handle the few-shot scenario and unreliable attribute descriptions. On three datasets, we demonstrate the benefit for visual category learning with zero or few training examples, a critical domain for rare categories or categories defined on the fly.
Consistency of weighted majority votes,We revisit from a statistical learning perspective the classical decision-theoretic problem of weighted expert voting. In particular, we examine the consistency (both asymptotic and finitary) of the optimal Nitzan-Paroush weighted majority and related rules. In the case of known expert competence levels, we give sharp error estimates for the optimal rule. When the competence levels are unknown, they must be empirically estimated. We provide frequentist and Bayesian analyses for this situation. Some of our proof techniques are non-standard and may be of independent interest. The bounds we derive are nearly optimal, and several challenging open problems are posed. Experimental results are provided to illustrate the theory.
Inferring synaptic conductances from spike trains with a biophysically inspired point process model,A popular approach to neural characterization describes neural responses in terms of a cascade of linear and nonlinear stages: a linear filter to describe stimulus integration, followed by a nonlinear function to convert the filter output to spike rate. However, real neurons respond to stimuli in a manner that depends on the nonlinear integration of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs. Here we introduce a biophysically inspired point process model that explicitly incorporates stimulus-induced changes in synaptic conductance in a dynamical model of neuronal membrane potential. Our work makes two important contributions. First, on a theoretical level, it offers a novel interpretation of the popular generalized linear model (GLM) for neural spike trains. We show that the classic GLM is a special case of our conductance-based model in which the stimulus linearly modulates excitatory and inhibitory conductances in an equal and opposite push-pull fashion. Our model can therefore be viewed as a direct extension of the GLM in which we relax these constraints; the resulting model can exhibit shunting as well as hyperpolarizing inhibition, and time-varying changes in both gain and membrane time constant. Second, on a practical level, we show that our model provides a tractable model of spike responses in early sensory neurons that is both more accurate and more interpretable than the GLM. Most importantly, we show that we can accurately infer intracellular synaptic conductances from extracellularly recorded spike trains. We validate these estimates using direct intracellular measurements of excitatory and inhibitory conductances in parasol retinal ganglion cells. We show that the model fit to extracellular spike trains can predict excitatory and inhibitory conductances elicited by novel stimuli with nearly the same accuracy as a model trained directly with intracellular conductances.
Information-based learning by agents in unbounded state spaces,The idea that animals might use information-driven planning to explore an unknown environment and build an internal model of it has been proposed for quite some time. Recent work has demonstrated that agents using this principle can efficiently learn models of probabilistic environments with discrete, bounded state spaces. However, animals and robots are commonly confronted with unbounded environments. To address this more challenging situation, we study information-based learning strategies of agents in unbounded state spaces using non-parametric Bayesian models. Specifically, we demonstrate that the Chinese Restaurant Process (CRP) model is able to solve this problem and that an Empirical Bayes version is able to efficiently explore bounded and unbounded worlds by relying on little prior information.
Local Linear Convergence of Forward--Backward under Partial Smoothness,In this paper, we consider the Forward--Backward proximal splitting algorithm to minimize the sum of two proper closed convex functions, one of which having a Lipschitz continuous gradient and the other being partly smooth relatively to an active manifold $\mathcal{M}$. We propose a generic framework in which we show that the Forward--Backward (i) correctly identifies the active manifold $\mathcal{M}$ in a finite number of iterations, and then (ii) enters a local linear convergence regime that we characterize precisely. This gives a grounded and unified explanation to the typical behaviour that has been observed numerically for many problems encompassed in our framework, including the Lasso, the group Lasso, the fused Lasso and the nuclear norm regularization to name a few. These results may have numerous applications including in signal/image processing processing, sparse recovery and machine learning.
Beta-Negative Binomial Process and Exchangeable Random Partitions for Mixed-Membership Modeling,The beta-negative binomial process (BNBP), an integer-valued stochastic process, is employed to partition a count vector into a latent random count matrix. As the marginal probability distribution of the BNBP that governs the exchangeable random partitions of grouped data has not yet been developed, current inference for the BNBP has to truncate the number of atoms of the beta process. This paper introduces an exchangeable partition probability function to explicitly describe how the BNBP clusters the data points of each group into a random number of exchangeable partitions, which are shared across all the groups. A fully collapsed Gibbs sampler is developed for the BNBP, leading to a novel nonparametric Bayesian topic model that is distinct from existing ones, with simple implementation, fast convergence, good mixing, and state-of-the-art predictive performance.
Mondrian Forests: Efficient Online Random Forests,Ensembles of randomized decision trees, usually referred to as random forests, are widely used for classification and regression tasks in machine learning and statistics. Random forests achieve competitive predictive performance and are computationally efficient to train and test, making them excellent candidates for real-world prediction tasks. The most popular random forest variants (such as Breiman's random forest and extremely randomized trees) operate on batches of training data. Online methods are now in greater demand. Existing online random forests, however, require more training data than their batch counterpart to achieve comparable predictive performance. In this work, we use Mondrian processes (Roy and Teh, 2009) to construct ensembles of random decision trees we call Mondrian forests. Mondrian forests can be grown in an incremental/online fashion and remarkably, the distribution of online Mondrian forests is the same as that of batch Mondrian forests. Mondrian forests achieve competitive predictive performance comparable with existing online random forests and periodically re-trained batch random forests, while being more than an order of magnitude faster, thus representing a better computation vs accuracy tradeoff.
On Integrated Clustering and Outlier Detection,We model the joint clustering and outlier detection problem using an extension of the facility location formulation. The advantages of combining clustering and outlier selection include: (i) the resulting clusters tend to be compact and semantically coherent (ii) the clusters are more robust against data perturbations and (iii) the outliers are contextualised by the clusters and more interpretable. We provide a practical subgradient-based algorithm for the problem and also study the theoretical properties of algorithm in terms of approximation and convergence. Extensive evaluation on synthetic and real data sets attest to both the quality and scalability of our proposed method.
Sensory Integration and Density Estimation,The integration of partially redundant information from multiple sensors is a standard computational problem for agents interacting with the world. In man and other primates, integration has been shown psychophysically to be nearly optimal in the sense of error minimization. An influential generalization of this notion of optimality is that populations of multisensory neurons should retain all the information from their unisensory afferents about the underlying, common stimulus [1]. More recently, it was shown empirically that a neural network trained to perform latent-variable density estimation, with the activities of the unisensory neurons as observed data, satisfies the information-preservation criterion, even though the model architecture was not designed to match the true generative process for the data [2]. We prove here an analytical connection between these seemingly different tasks, density estimation and sensory integration; that the former implies the latter for the model used in [2]; but that this does not appear to be true for all models.
Neurons as Monte Carlo Samplers: Bayesian Inference and Learning in Spiking Networks,We propose a two-layer spiking network capable of performing approximate inference and learning for a hidden Markov model. The lower layer sensory neurons detect noisy measurements of hidden world states. The higher layer neurons with recurrent connections infer a posterior distribution over world states from spike trains generated by sensory neurons. We show how such a neuronal network with synaptic plasticity can implement a form of Bayesian inference similar to Monte Carlo methods such as particle filtering. Each spike in the population of inference neurons represents a sample of a particular hidden world state. The spiking activity across the neural population approximates the posterior distribution of hidden state. The model provides a functional explanation for the Poisson-like noise commonly observed in cortical responses. Uncertainties in spike times provide the necessary variability for sampling during inference. Unlike previous models, the hidden world state is not observed by the sensory neurons, and the temporal dynamics of the hidden state is unknown. We demonstrate how this network can sequentially learn the hidden Markov model using a spike-timing dependent Hebbian learning rule and achieve power-law convergence rates.
Factoring Variations in Natural Images with Deep Gaussian Mixture Models,Generative models can be seen as the swiss army knives of machine learning, as many problems can be written probabilistically in terms of the distribution of the data, including prediction, reconstruction, imputation and simulation. One of the most promising directions for unsupervised learning may lie in Deep Learning methods, given their success in supervised learning. However, one of the current problems with deep unsupervised learning methods, is that they often are harder to scale. As a result there are some easier, more scalable shallow methods, such as the Gaussian Mixture Model and the Student-t Mixture Model, that remain surprisingly competitive. In this paper we propose a new scalable deep generative model for images, called the Deep Gaussian Mixture Model, that is a straightforward but powerful generalization of GMMs to multiple layers. The parametrization of a Deep GMM allows it to efficiently capture products of variations in natural images. We propose a new EM-based algorithm that scales well to large datasets, and we show that both the Expectation and the Maximization steps can easily be distributed over multiple machines. In our density estimation experiments we show that deeper GMM architectures generalize better than more shallow ones, with results in the same ballpark as the state of the art.
General Stochastic Networks for Classification,We extend generative stochastic networks to supervised learning of representations. In particular, we introduce a hybrid training objective considering a generative and discriminative cost function governed by a trade-off parameter lambda. We use a new variant of network training involving noise injection, i.e. walkback training, to jointly optimize multiple network layers. Neither additional regularization constraints, such as l1, l2 norms or dropout variants, nor pooling- or convolutional layers were added. Nevertheless, we are able to obtain state-of-the-art performance on the MNIST dataset, without using permutation invariant digits and outperform baseline models on sub-variants of the MNIST and rectangles dataset significantly.
Exact Post Model Selection Inference for Marginal Screening,We develop a framework for post model selection inference, via marginal screening, in linear regression. At the core of this framework is a result that characterizes the exact distribution of linear functions of the response $y$, conditional on the model being selected (``condition on selection" framework). This allows us to construct valid confidence intervals and hypothesis tests for regression coefficients that account for the selection procedure. In contrast to recent work in high-dimensional statistics, our results are exact (non-asymptotic) and require no eigenvalue-like assumptions on the design matrix $X$. Furthermore, the computational cost of marginal regression, constructing confidence intervals and hypothesis testing is negligible compared to the cost of linear regression, thus making our methods particularly suitable for extremely large datasets. Although we focus on marginal screening to illustrate the applicability of the condition on selection framework, this framework is much more broadly applicable. We show how to apply the proposed framework to several other selection procedures including orthogonal matching pursuit and marginal screening+Lasso.
Low-dimensional models of neural population activity in sensory cortical circuits,Neural responses in visual cortex are influenced by visual stimuli and by ongoing spiking activity in local circuits. An important challenge in computational neuroscience is to develop models that can account for both of these features in large multi-neuron recordings and to reveal how stimulus representations interact with and depend on cortical dynamics. Here we introduce a statistical model of neural population activity that integrates a nonlinear receptive field model with a latent dynamical model of ongoing cortical activity. This model captures the temporal dynamics, effective network connectivity in large population recordings, and correlations due to shared stimulus drive as well as common noise. Moreover, because the nonlinear stimulus inputs are mixed by the ongoing dynamics, the model can account for a relatively large number of idiosyncratic receptive field shapes with a small number of nonlinear inputs to a low-dimensional latent dynamical model. We introduce a fast estimation method using online expectation maximization with Laplace approximations. Inference scales linearly in both population size and recording duration. We apply this model to multi-channel recordings from primary visual cortex and show that it accounts for a large number of individual neural receptive fields using a small number of nonlinear inputs and a low-dimensional dynamical model.
Capturing Semantically Meaningful Word Dependencies with an Admixture of Poisson MRFs,We develop a fast algorithm for the Admixture of Poisson MRFs (APM) topic model and propose a novel metric to directly evaluate this model. The APM topic model recently introduced by Inouye et al. (2014) is the first topic model that allows for word dependencies within each topic unlike in previous topic models like LDA that assume independence between words within a topic. Research in both the semantic coherence of a topic models (Mimno et al. 2011, Newman et al. 2010) and measures of model fitness (Mimno & Blei 2011) provide strong support that explicitly modeling word dependencies---as in APM---could be both semantically meaningful and essential for appropriately modeling real text data. Though APM shows significant promise for providing a better topic model, APM has a high computational complexity because $O(p^2)$ parameters must be estimated where $p$ is the number of words (Inouye et al. could only provide results for datasets with $p = 200$). In light of this, we develop a parallel alternating Newton-like algorithm for training the APM model that can handle $p = 10^4$ as an important step towards scaling to large datasets. In addition, Inouye et al. only provided tentative and inconclusive results on the utility of APM. Thus, motivated by simple intuitions and previous evaluations of topic models, we propose a novel evaluation metric based on human evocation scores between word pairs (i.e. how much one word "brings to mind" another word (Boyd-Graber et al. 2006)). We provide compelling quantitative and qualitative results on the BNC corpus that demonstrate the superiority of APM over previous topic models for identifying semantically meaningful word dependencies. (MATLAB code available at: http://bigdata.ices.utexas.edu/software/apm/)
Near-Optimal-Sample Estimators for Spherical Gaussian Mixtures,Many important distributions are high dimensional, and often they can be modeled as Gaussian mixtures. We derive the first sample-efficient polynomial-time estimator for high-dimensional spherical Gaussian mixtures. Based on intuitive spectral reasoning, it approximates mixtures of $k$ spherical Gaussians in $d$-dimensions to within$\ell_1$ distance $\epsilon$ using $\mathcal{O}({dk^9(\log^2 d)}/{\epsilon^4})$ samples and $\mathcal{O}_{k,\epsilon}(d^3\log^5 d)$ computation time. Conversely, we show that any estimator requires $\Omega\bigl({dk}/{\epsilon^2}\bigr)$ samples, hence the algorithm's sample complexity is nearly optimal in the dimension. The implied time-complexity factor \mathcal{O}_{k,\epsilon}$ is exponential in $k$, but much smaller than previously known. We also construct a simple estimator for one-dimensional Gaussian mixtures that uses $\tilde\mathcal{O}(k /\epsilon^2)$ samples and $\tilde\mathcal{O}((k/\epsilon)^{3k+1})$ computation time.
Parallel Sampling of HDPs using Sub-Cluster Splits,We develop a sampling technique for Hierarchical Dirichlet process models. The parallel algorithm builds upon [Chang & Fisher 2013] by proposing large split and merge moves based on learned sub-clusters. The additional global split and merge moves drastically improve convergence in the experimental results. Furthermore, we discover that cross-validation techniques do not adequately determine convergence, and that previous sampling methods converge slower than were previously expected.
Attentional Neural Network: Feature Selection Using Cognitive Feedback,Attentional Neural Network is a new framework that integrates top-down cognitive bias and bottom-up feature extraction in one coherent architecture. The top-down influence is especially effective when dealing with high noise or difficult segmentation problems. Our system is modular and extensible. It is also easy to train and cheap to run, and yet can accommodate complex behaviors. We obtain classification accuracy better than or competitive with state of art results on the MNIST variation dataset, and successfully disentangle overlaid digits with high success rates. We view such a general purpose framework as an essential foundation for a larger system emulating the cognitive abilities of the whole brain.
Generalized Dantzig Selector: Application to the k-support norm,We propose a Generalized Dantzig Selector (GDS) for linear models, in which any norm encoding the parameter structure can be leveraged for estimation. We investigate both computational and statistical aspects of the GDS. Based on conjugate proximal operator, a flexible inexact ADMM framework is designed for solving GDS. Thereafter, non-asymptotic high-probability bounds are established on the estimation error, which rely on Gaussian widths of the unit norm ball and the error set. Further, we consider a non-trivial example of the GDS using k-support norm. We derive an efficient method to compute the proximal operator for k-support norm since existing methods are inapplicable in this setting. For statistical analysis, we provide upper bounds for the Gaussian widths needed in the GDS analysis, yielding the first statistical recovery guarantee for estimation with the k-support norm. The experimental results confirm our theoretical analysis.
Tighten after Relax: Minimax-Optimal Sparse PCA in Polynomial Time,We provide statistical and computational analysis of sparse Principal Component Analysis (PCA) in high dimensions. The sparse PCA problem is highly nonconvex in nature. Consequently, though its global solution attains the optimal statistical rate of convergence, such solution is computationally intractable to obtain. Meanwhile, although its convex relaxations are tractable to compute, they yield estimators with suboptimal statistical rates of convergence. On the other hand, existing nonconvex optimization procedures, such as greedy methods, lack statistical guarantees. In this paper, we propose a two-stage sparse PCA procedure that attains the optimal principal subspace estimator in polynomial time. The main stage employs a novel algorithm named sparse orthogonal iteration pursuit, which iteratively solves the underlying nonconvex problem. However, our analysis shows that this algorithm only has desired computational and statistical guarantees within a restricted region, namely the basin of attraction. To obtain the desired initial estimator that falls into this region, we solve a convex formulation of sparse PCA with early stopping. Under an integrated analytic framework, we simultaneously characterize the computational and statistical performance of this two-stage procedure. Computationally, our procedure converges at the rate of $1/\sqrt{t}$ within the initialization stage, and at a geometric rate within the main stage. Statistically, the final principal subspace estimator achieves the minimax-optimal statistical rate of convergence with respect to the sparsity level $s^*$, dimension $d$ and sample size $n$. Our procedure motivates a general paradigm of tackling nonconvex statistical learning problems with provable statistical guarantees.
On Sparse Gaussian Chain Graph Models,In this paper, we address the problem of learning the structure of Gaussian chain graph models in a high-dimensional space. Chain graph models are generalizations of undirected and directed graphical models that contain a mixed set of directed and undirected edges. While the problem of sparse structure learning has been studied extensively for Gaussian graphical models and more recently for conditional Gaussian graphical models (CGGMs), there has been little previous work on the structure recovery of Gaussian chain graph models. We consider linear regression models and a re-parameterization of the linear regression models using CGGMs as building blocks of chain graph models. We argue that when the goal is to recover model structures, there are many advantages of using CGGMs as chain component models over linear regression models, including convexity of the optimization problem, computational efficiency, recovery of structured sparsity, and ability to leverage the model structure for semi-supervised learning. We demonstrate our approach on simulated and genomic datasets.
Using Convolutional Neural Networks to Recognize Rhythm Stimuli from Electroencephalography Recordings,Electroencephalography (EEG) recordings of rhythm perception might contain enough information to distinguish different rhythm types/genres or even identify the rhythms themselves. We apply convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to analyze and classify EEG data recorded within a rhythm perception study in Kigali, Rwanda which comprises 12 East African and 12 Western rhythmic stimuli  each presented in a loop for 32 seconds to 13 participants. We investigate the impact of the data representation and the pre-processing steps for this classification tasks and compare different network structures. Using CNNs, we are able to recognize individual rhythms from the EEG with a mean classification accuracy of 24.4% (chance level 4.17%) over all subjects by looking at less than three seconds from a single channel. Aggregating predictions for multiple channels, a mean accuracy of up to 50% can be achieved for individual subjects.
Graph Clustering With Missing Data: Convex Algorithms and Analysis,We consider the problem of finding clusters in an unweighted graph, when the graph is partially observed. We analyze two programs, one which works for dense graphs and one which works for both sparse and dense graphs, but requires some a priori knowledge of the total cluster size, that are based on the convex optimization approach for low-rank matrix recovery using nuclear norm minimization. For the commonly used Stochastic Block Model, we obtain \emph{explicit} bounds on the parameters of the problem (size and sparsity of clusters, the amount of observed data) and the regularization parameter characterize the success and failure of the programs. We corroborate our theoretical findings through extensive simulations. We also run our algorithm on a real data set obtained from crowdsourcing an image classification task on the Amazon Mechanical Turk, and observe significant performance improvement over traditional methods such as k-means.
Convex Optimization Procedure for Clustering: Theoretical Revisit,In this paper, we present theoretical analysis of SON~--~a convex optimization procedure for clustering using a sum-of-norms (SON) regularization recently proposed in \cite{ICML2011Hocking_419,SON, Lindsten650707, pelckmans2005convex}. In particular, we show if the samples are drawn from two cubes, each being one cluster, then SON can provably identify the cluster membership provided that the distance between the two cubes is larger than a threshold which (linearly) depends on the size of the cube and the ratio of numbers of samples in each cluster. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to provide a rigorous analysis to understand why and when SON works. We believe this may provide important insights to develop novel convex optimization based algorithms for clustering.
Recursive Context Propagation Network for Semantic Scene Labeling,We propose a deep feed-forward neural network architecture for pixel-wise semantic scene labeling. It uses a novel recursive neural network architecture for context propagation, referred to as rCPN. It first maps the local visual features into a semantic space followed by a bottom-up aggregation of local information into a global representation of the entire image. Then a top-down propagation of the aggregated information takes place that enhances the contextual information of each local feature. Therefore, the information from every location in the image is propagated to every other location. Experimental results on Stanford background and SIFT Flow datasets show that the proposed method outperforms previous approaches. It is also orders of magnitude faster than previous methods and takes only 0.07 seconds on a GPU for pixel-wise labeling of a 256x256 image starting from raw RGB pixel values, given the super-pixel mask that takes an additional 0.3 seconds using an off-the-shelf implementation.
The Infinite Mixture of Infinite Gaussian Mixtures,Dirichlet process mixture of Gaussians (DPMG) has been used in the literature for clustering and density estimation problems. However, many real-world data exhibit cluster distributions that cannot be captured by a single Gaussian. Modeling such data sets by DPMG creates several extraneous clusters even when clusters are relatively well-defined. Herein, we present the infinite mixture of infinite Gaussian mixtures (I2GMM) for more flexible modeling of data sets with skewed and multi-modal cluster distributions. Instead of using a single Gaussian for each cluster as in the standard DPMG model, the generative model of I2GMM uses a single DPMG for each cluster. The individual DPMGs are linked together through centering of their base distributions at the atoms of a higher level DP prior. Inference is performed by a collapsed Gibbs sampler that also enables partial parallelization. Experimental results on several artificial and real-world data sets suggest the proposed I2GMM model can predict clusters more accurately than existing variational Bayes and Gibbs sampler versions of DPMG.
Deep Networks with Internal Selective Attention through Feedback Connections,Traditional convolutional neural networks (CNN) are stationary and feedforward. They neither change their parameters during evaluation nor use feedback from higher to lower layers. Real brains, however, do. So does our Deep Attention Selective Network (dasNet) architecture. DasNet's feedback structure can dynamically alter its convolutional filter sensitivities during classification. It harnesses the power of sequential processing to improve classification performance, by allowing the network to iteratively focus its internal attention on some of its convolutional filters. Feedback is trained through direct policy search in a huge million-dimensional parameter space, through scalable natural evolution strategies (SNES). On the CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 datasets, dasNet outperforms the previous state-of-the-art model on unaugmented datasets.
Model-based Reinforcement Learning and the Eluder Dimension,We consider the problem of learning to optimize an unknown Markov decision process (MDP). We show that, if the MDP can be parameterized within some known function class, we can obtain regret bounds that scale with the dimensionality, rather than cardinality, of the system. We characterize this dependence explicitly as $\tilde{O}(\sqrt{d_K d_E T})$ where $T$ is time elapsed, $d_K$ is the Kolmogorov dimension and $d_E$ is the \emph{eluder dimension}. These represent the first unified regret bounds for model-based reinforcement learning and provide state of the art guarantees in several important settings. Moreover, we present a simple and computationally efficient algorithm \emph{posterior sampling for reinforcement learning} (PSRL) that satisfies these bounds.
Tight convex relaxations for sparse matrix factorization,Based on a new atomic norm, we propose a new convex formulation for sparse matrix factorization problems in which the number of nonzero elements of the factors is assumed fixed and known. The formulation counts sparse PCA with multiple factors, subspace clustering and low-rank sparse bilinear regression as potential applications. We compute slow rates and an upper bound on the statistical dimension of the suggested norm for rank 1 matrices, showing that its statistical dimension is an order of magnitude smaller than the usual l_1-norm, trace norm and their combinations. Even though our convex formulation is in theory hard and does not lead to provably polynomial time algorithmic schemes, we propose an active set algorithm leveraging the structure of the convex problem to solve it and show promising numerical results.
Compressive Sensing of Signals from a GMM with Sparse Precision Matrices,This paper is concerned with compressive sensing of signals drawn from a Gaussian mixture model (GMM) with sparse precision matrices. Previous work has shown: (i) a signal drawn from a given GMM can be perfectly reconstructed from r noise-free measurements if the (dominant) rank of each covariance matrix is less than r; (ii) a sparse Gaussian graphical model can be efficiently estimated from fully-observed training signals using graphical lasso. This paper addresses a problem more challenging than both (i) and (ii), by assuming that the GMM is unknown and each signal is only partially observed through incomplete linear measurements. Under these challenging assumptions, we develop a hierarchical Bayesian method to simultaneously estimate the GMM and recover the signals using solely the incomplete measurements and a Bayesian shrinkage prior that promotes sparsity of the Gaussian precision matrices. In addition, we provide theoretical performance bounds to relate the reconstruction error to the number of signals for which measurements are available, the sparsity level of precision matrices, and the incompleteness of measurements. The proposed method is demonstrated extensively on compressive sensing of imagery and video, and the results with simulated and hardware-acquired real measurements show significant performance improvement over state-of-the-art methods.
Optimal prior-dependent neural population codes under shared input noise,The brain uses population codes to form distributed, noise-tolerant representations of sensory and motor variables. Recent work has examined the theoretical optimality of such codes in order to gain insight into the principles governing population codes found in the brain. However, the majority of the population coding literature considers either conditionally independent neurons or neurons with noise governed by a stimulus-independent covariance matrix. Here we analyze population coding under a simple alternative model in which latent "input noise" corrupts the stimulus before it is encoded by the population. This provides a convenient and tractable description for irreducible uncertainty that cannot be overcome by adding neurons, and induces stimulus-dependent correlations that mimic certain aspects of the correlations observed in real populations. We examine prior-dependent, Bayesian optimal coding in such populations using exact analyses of cases in which the posterior is approximately Gaussian. These analyses extend previous results on independent Poisson population codes and yield an analytic expression for squared loss and a tight upper bound for mutual information. We show that, for homogeneous populations that tile the input domain, optimal tuning curve width depends on the prior, the loss function, the resource constraint, and the amount of input noise. This framework provides a practical testbed for examining issues of optimality, noise, correlation, and coding fidelity in realistic neural populations.
Bandit Convex Optimization: Towards Tight Bounds,Bandit Convex Optimization (BCO) is a fundamental framework for decision making under uncertainty, which generalizes many problems from the realm of online and statistical learning. While the special case of linear cost functions is well understood, a gap on the attainable regret for BCO with nonlinear losses remains an important open question. In this paper we take a step towards understanding the best attainable regret bounds for BCO: we give an efficient and near-optimal regret algorithm for BCO with strongly-convex and smooth loss functions. In contrast to previous works on BCO that use time invariant exploration schemes, our method employs an exploration scheme that shrinks with time.
Two-Layer Feature Reduction for Sparse-Group Lasso via Decomposition of Convex Sets,Sparse-Group Lasso (SGL) has been shown to be a powerful regression technique for simultaneously discovering group and within-group sparse patterns by using a combination of the l1 and l2 norms. However, in large-scale applications, the complexity of the regularizers entails great computational challenges. In this paper, we propose a novel two-layer feature reduction method (TLFre) for SGL via a decomposition of its dual feasible set. The two-layer reduction is able to quickly identify the inactive groups and the inactive features, respectively, which are guaranteed to be absent from the sparse representation and can be removed from the optimization. Existing feature reduction methods are only applicable for sparse models with one sparsity-inducing regularizer. To our best knowledge, TLFre is the first one that is capable of dealing with multiple sparsity-inducing regularizers. Moreover, TLFre has a very low computational cost and can be integrated with any existing solvers. Experiments on both synthetic and real data sets show that TLFre improves the efficiency of SGL by orders of magnitude.
Optimistic Planning in Markov Decision Processes Using a Generative Model,We consider the problem of online planning in a Markov decision process with discounted rewards for any given initial state. We consider the PAC sample complexity problem of computing, with probability $1-\delta$, an $\epsilon$-optimal action using the smallest possible number of calls to the generative model (which provides reward and next-state samples). We design an algorithm, called StOP (for Stochastic-Optimistic Planning), based on the "optimism in the face of uncertainty" principle. StOP can be used in the general setting, requires only a generative model, and enjoys a complexity bound that only depends on the local structure of the MDP.
Multilabel Structured Output Learning with Random Spanning Trees of Max-Margin Markov Networks,We show that the usual score function for conditional Markov networks can be written as the expectation over the scores of their spanning trees. We also show that a small random sample of these output trees can attain a significant fraction of the margin obtained by the complete graph and we provide conditions under which we can perform tractable inference. The experimental results confirm that practical learning is scalable to realistic datasets using this approach.
Generative Adversarial Nets,We propose a new framework for estimating generative models via adversarial nets, in which we simultaneously train two models: a generative model G that captures the data distribution, and a discriminative model D that estimates the probability that a sample came from the training data rather than G. The training procedure for G is to maximize the probability of D making a mistake. This framework corresponds to a minimax two-player game. In the space of arbitrary functions G and D, a unique solution exists, with G recovering the training data distribution and D equal to 1/2 everywhere. In the case where G and D are defined by multilayer perceptrons, the entire system can be trained with backpropagation. There is no need for any Markov chains or unrolled approximate inference networks during either training or generation of samples. Experiments demonstrate the potential of the framework through qualitative and quantitatively evaluation of the generated samples.
Searching for Higgs Boson Decay Modes with Deep Learning,Particle colliders enable us to probe the fundamental nature of matter by observing exotic particles produced by high-energy collisions. Because the experimental measurements from these collisions are necessarily incomplete and imprecise, machine learning algorithms play a major role in the analysis of experimental data. The high-energy physics community typically relies on standardized machine learning software packages for this analysis, and devotes substantial effort towards improving statistical power by hand crafting high-level features derived from the raw collider measurements. In this paper, we train artificial neural networks to detect the decay of the Higgs boson to tau leptons on a dataset of 82 million simulated collision events. We demonstrate that deep neural network architectures are particularly well-suited for this task with the ability to automatically discover high-level features from the data and increase discovery significance.
Shaping Social Activity by Incentivizing Users,Events in an online social network can be categorized roughly into endogenous events, where users just respond to the actions of their neighbors within the network, or exogenous events, where users take actions due to drives external to the network. How much external drive should be provided to each user, such that the network activity can be steered towards a target state? In this paper, we model social events using multivariate Hawkes processes, which can capture both endogenous and exogenous event intensities, and derive a time dependent linear relation between the intensity of exogenous events and the overall network activity. Exploiting this connection, we develop a convex optimization framework for determining the required level of external drive in order for the network to reach a desired activity level. We experimented with event data gathered from Twitter, and show that our method can steer the activity of the network more accurately than alternatives.
Online Optimization for Max-Norm Regularization,Max-norm regularizer has been extensively studied in the last decade as it promotes an effective low rank estimation of the underlying data. However, max-norm regularized problems are typically formulated and solved in a batch manner, which prevents it from processing big data due to possible memory bottleneck. In this paper, we propose an online algorithm for solving max-norm regularized problems that is scalable to large problems. Particularly, we consider the matrix decomposition problem as an example, although our analysis can also be applied in other problems such as matrix completion. The key technique in our algorithm is to reformulate the max-norm into a matrix factorization form, consisting of a basis component and a coefficients one. In this way, we can solve the optimal basis and coefficients alternatively. We prove that the basis produced by our algorithm converges to a stationary point asymptotically. Experiments demonstrate encouraging results for the effectiveness and robustness of our algorithm. See the full paper at arXiv:1406.3190.
An Accelerated Proximal Coordinate Gradient Method,We develop an accelerated randomized proximal coordinate gradient (APCG) method, for solving a broad class of composite convex optimization problems. In particular, our method achieves faster linear convergence rates for minimizing strongly convex functions than existing randomized proximal coordinate gradient methods. We show how to apply the APCG method to solve the dual of the regularized empirical risk minimization (ERM) problem, and devise efficient implementations that can avoid full-dimensional vector operations. For ill-conditioned ERM problems, our method obtains improved convergence rates than the state-of-the-art stochastic dual coordinate ascent (SDCA) method.
Scalable Non-linear Learning with Adaptive Polynomial Expansions,Can we effectively learn a nonlinear representation in time comparable to linear learning? We describe a new algorithm that explicitly and adaptively expands higher-order interaction features over base linear representations. The algorithm is designed for extreme computational efficiency, and an extensive experimental study shows that its computation/prediction tradeoff ability compares very favorably against strong baselines.
Distributed Power-law Graph Computing: Theoretical and Empirical Analysis,With the emergence of big graphs in a variety of real applications like social networks, machine learning based on distributed graph-computing~(DGC) frameworks has attracted much attention from big data machine learning community. In DGC frameworks, the graph partitioning~(GP) strategy plays a key role to affect the performance, including the workload balance and communication cost. Typically, the degree distributions of natural graphs from real applications follow skewed power laws, which makes GP a challenging task. Recently, many methods have been proposed to solve the GP problem. However, the existing GP methods cannot achieve satisfactory performance for applications with power-law graphs. In this paper, we propose a novel vertex-cut method, called \emph{degree-based hashing}~(DBH), for GP. DBH makes effective use of the skewed degree distributions for GP. We theoretically prove that DBH can achieve lower communication cost than existing methods and can simultaneously guarantee good workload balance. Furthermore, empirical results on several large power-law graphs also show that DBH can outperform the state of the art.
Two-Stream Convolutional Networks for Action Recognition in Videos,We investigate architectures of discriminatively trained deep Convolutional Networks (ConvNets) for action recognition in video. The challenge is to capture the complementary information on appearance from still frames and motion between frames. We also aim to generalise the best performing hand-crafted features within a data-driven learning framework. Our contribution is three-fold. First, we propose a two-stream ConvNet architecture which incorporates spatial and temporal networks. Second, we demonstrate that a ConvNet trained on multi-frame dense optical flow is able to achieve very good performance in spite of limited training data. Finally, we show that multi-task learning, applied to two different action classification datasets, can be used to increase the amount of training data and improve the performance on both. Our architecture is trained and evaluated on the standard video actions benchmarks of UCF-101 and HMDB-51, where it is competitive with the state of the art. It also exceeds by a large margin previous attempts to use deep nets for video classification.
Scalable Methods for Nonnegative Matrix Factorizations of Near-separable Tall-and-skinny Matrices,Numerous algorithms are used for nonnegative matrix factorization under the assumption that the matrix is nearly separable. In this paper, we show how to make these algorithms scalable for data matrices that have many more rows than columns, so-called "tall-and-skinny matrices." One key component to these improved methods is an orthogonal matrix transformation that preserves the separability of the NMF problem. Our final methods need to read the data matrix only once and are suitable for streaming, multi-core, and MapReduce architectures. We demonstrate the efficacy of these algorithms on terabyte-sized matrices from scientific computing and bioinformatics.
Optimal rates for k-NN density and mode estimation,We present two related contributions of independent interest: (1) high-probability finite sample rates for $k$-NN density estimation, and (2) practical mode estimators -- based on $k$-NN -- which attain minimax-optimal rates under surprisingly general distributional conditions.
Asymmetric LSH (ALSH) for Sublinear Time Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS),We present the first provably sublinear time hashing algorithm for approximate \emph{Maximum Inner Product Search} (MIPS). Searching with (un-normalized) inner product as the underlying similarity measure is a known difficult problem and finding hashing schemes for MIPS was considered hard. While the existing Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH) framework is insufficient for solving MIPS, in this paper we extend the LSH framework to allow asymmetric hashing schemes. Our proposal is based on a key observation that the problem of finding maximum inner products, after independent asymmetric transformations, can be converted into the problem of approximate near neighbor search in classical settings. This key observation makes efficient sublinear hashing scheme for MIPS possible. Under the extended asymmetric LSH (ALSH) framework, this paper provides an example of explicit construction of provably fast hashing scheme for MIPS. Our proposed algorithm is simple and easy to implement. The proposed hashing scheme leads to significant computational savings over the two popular conventional LSH schemes: (i) Sign Random Projection (SRP) and (ii) hashing based on $p$-stable distributions for $L_2$ norm (L2LSH), in the collaborative filtering task of item recommendations on Netflix and Movielens (10M) datasets.
Sparse Space-Time Deconvolution for Calcium Image Analysis,We describe a unified formulation and algorithm to find an extremely sparse representation for Calcium image sequences in terms of cell locations, cell shapes, spike timings and impulse responses. Solution of a single optimization problem yields cell segmentations and activity estimates that are on par with the state of the art, without the need for heuristic pre- or postprocessing. Experiments on real and synthetic data demonstrate the viability of the proposed method.
Local Decorrelation For Improved Pedestrian Detection,Even with the advent of more sophisticated, data-hungry methods, boosted decision trees remain extraordinarily successful for fast rigid object detection, achieving top accuracy on numerous datasets. While effective, most boosted detectors use decision trees with orthogonal (single feature) splits, and the topology of the resulting decision boundary may not be well matched to the natural topology of the data. Given highly correlated data, decision trees with oblique (multiple feature) splits can be effective. Use of oblique splits, however, comes at considerable computational expense. Inspired by recent work on discriminative decorrelation of HOG features, we instead propose an efficient feature transform that removes correlations in local neighborhoods. The result is an overcomplete but locally decorrelated representation ideally suited for use with orthogonal decision trees. In fact, orthogonal trees with our locally decorrelated features outperform oblique trees trained over the original features at a fraction of the computational cost. The overall improvement in accuracy is dramatic: on the Caltech Pedestrian Dataset, we reduce false positives nearly tenfold over the previous state-of-the-art.
Clustering from Labels and Time-Varying Graphs,We present a general framework for graph clustering where a label is observed to each pair of nodes. This allows a very rich encoding of various types of pairwise interactions between nodes. We propose a new tractable approach to this problem based on maximum likelihood estimator and convex optimization. We analyze our algorithm under a general generative model, and provide both necessary and sufficient conditions for successful recovery of the underlying clusters. Our theoretical results cover and subsume a wide range of existing graph clustering results including planted partition, weighted clustering and partially observed graphs. Furthermore, the result is applicable to novel settings including time-varying graphs such that new insights can be gained on solving these problems. Our theoretical findings are further supported by empirical results on both synthetic and real data.
Deep Learning Face Representation by Joint Identification-Verification,The key challenge of face recognition is to develop effective feature representations for reducing intra-personal variations while enlarging inter-personal differences. In this paper, we show that it can be well solved with deep learning and using both face identification and verification signals as supervision. The Deep IDentification-verification features (DeepID2) are learned with carefully designed deep convolutional networks. The face identification task increases the inter-personal variations by drawing DeepID2 features extracted from different identities apart, while the face verification task reduces the intra-personal variations by pulling DeepID2 features extracted from the same identity together, both of which are essential to face recognition. The learned DeepID2 features can be well generalized to new identities unseen in the training data. On the challenging LFW dataset, 99.15% face verification accuracy is achieved. Compared with the best previous deep learning result on LFW, the error rate has been significantly reduced by 67%.
Inference by Learning: Speeding-up Graphical Model Optimization via a Coarse-to-Fine Cascade of Pruning Classifiers,We propose a general and versatile framework that significantly speeds-up graphical model optimization while maintaining an excellent solution accuracy. The proposed approach, refereed as Inference by Learning or IbyL, relies on a multi-scale pruning scheme that progressively reduces the solution space by use of a coarse-to-fine cascade of learnt classifiers. We thoroughly experiment with classic computer vision related MRF problems, where our novel framework constantly yields a significant time speed-up (with respect to the most efficient inference methods) and obtains a more accurate solution than directly optimizing the MRF. We make our code available on-line.
Efficient Partial Monitoring with Prior Information,Partial monitoring is a general model for online learning with limited feedback: a learner chooses actions in a sequential manner while an opponent chooses outcomes. In every round, the learner suffers some loss and receives some feedback based on the action and the outcome. The goal of the learner is to minimize her cumulative loss. Applications range from dynamic pricing to label-efficient prediction to dueling bandits. In this paper, we assume that we are given some prior information about the distribution based on which the opponent generates the outcomes. We propose BPM, a family of new efficient algorithms whose core is to track the outcome distribution with an ellipsoid centered around the estimated distribution. We show that our algorithm provably enjoys near-optimal regret rate for locally observable partial-monitoring problems against stochastic opponents. As demonstrated with experiments on synthetic as well as real-world data, the algorithm outperforms previous approaches, even for very uninformed priors, with an order of magnitude smaller regret and lower running time.
A Dual Algorithm for Olfactory Computation in the Locust Brain,We study the early locust olfactory system in an attempt to explain its well-characterized structure and dynamics. We first propose its computational function as recovery of high-dimensional sparse olfactory signals from a small number of measurements. Detailed experimental knowledge about this system rules out standard algorithmic solutions to this problem. Instead, we show that solving a dual formulation of the corresponding optimisation problem yields structure and dynamics in good agreement with biological data. Further biological constraints lead us to a reduced form of this dual formulation in which the system uses independent component analysis to continuously adapt to its olfactory environment to allow accurate sparse recovery. Our work demonstrates the challenges and rewards of attempting detailed understanding of experimentally well-characterized systems.
Learning Deep Features for Scene Recognition using Places Database,Scene recognition is one of the hallmark tasks of computer vision, allowing definition of a context for object recognition. Whereas the tremendous recent progress in object recognition tasks is due to the availability of large datasets like ImageNet and the rise of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for learning high-level features, performance at scene recognition has not attained the same level of success. This may be because current deep features trained from ImageNet are not competitive enough for such tasks. Here, we introduce a new scene-centric database called Places with over 7 million labeled pictures of scenes. We propose new methods to compare the density and diversity of image datasets and show that Places is as dense as other scene datasets and has more diversity. Using CNN, we learn deep features for scene recognition tasks, and establish new state-of-the-art results on several scene-centric datasets. A visualization of the CNN layers' responses allows us to show differences in the internal representations of object-centric and scene-centric networks.
Clustered factor analysis of multineuronal spike data,High-dimensional, simultaneous recordings of neural spiking activity are often explored, analyzed and visualized with the help of latent variable or factor models. Such models are however ill-equipped to extract structure beyond shared, distributed aspects of firing activity across multiple cells. Here, we extend unstructured factor models by proposing a model that discovers subpopulations or groups of cells from the pool of recorded neurons. The model combines aspects of mixture of factor analyzer models for capturing clustering structure, and aspects of latent dynamical system models for capturing temporal dependencies. In the resulting model, we infer the subpopulations and the latent factors from data using variational inference and model parameters are estimated by Expectation Maximization (EM). We also address the crucial problem of initializing parameters for EM by extending a sparse subspace clustering algorithm to integer-valued spike count observations. We illustrate the merits of the proposed model by applying it to calcium-imaging data from spinal cord neurons, and we show that it uncovers meaningful clustering structure in the data.
Rounding-based Moves for Metric Labeling,Metric labeling is a special case of energy minimization for pairwise Markov random fields. The energy function consists of arbitrary unary potentials, and pairwise potentials that are proportional to a given metric distance function over the label set. Popular methods for solving metric labeling include (i) move-making algorithms, which iteratively solve a minimum st-cut problem; and (ii) the linear programming (LP) relaxation based approach. In order to convert the fractional solution of the LP relaxation to an integer solution, several randomized rounding procedures have been developed in the literature. We consider a large class of parallel rounding procedures, and design move-making algorithms that closely mimic them. We prove that the multiplicative bound of a move-making algorithm exactly matches the approximation factor of the corresponding rounding procedure for any arbitrary distance function. Our analysis includes all known results for move-making algorithms as special cases.
Sequence to Sequence Learning with Neural Networks,Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) are powerful models that have achieved excellent performance on difficult learning tasks. Although DNNs work well whenever large labeled training sets are available, they cannot be used to map sequences to sequences. In this paper, we present a general end-to-end approach to sequence learning that makes minimal assumptions on the sequence structure. Our method uses a multilayered Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) to map the input sequence to a vector of a fixed dimensionality, and then another deep LSTM to decode the target sequence from the vector. Our main result is that on an English to French translation task from the WMT-14 dataset, the translations produced by the LSTM achieve a BLEU score of 34.8 on the entire test set, where the LSTM's BLEU score was penalized on out-of-vocabulary words. Additionally, the LSTM did not have difficulty on long sentences. For comparison, a phrase-based SMT system achieves a BLEU score of 33.3 on the same dataset. When we used the LSTM to rerank the 1000 hypotheses produced by the aforementioned SMT system, its BLEU score increases to 36.5, which is close to the previous state of the art. The LSTM also learned sensible phrase and sentence representations that are sensitive to word order and are relatively invariant to the active and the passive voice. Finally, we found that reversing the order of the words in all source sentences (but not target sentences) improved the LSTM's performance markedly, because doing so introduced many short term dependencies between the source and the target sentence which made the optimization problem easier.
Quantized Kernel Learning for Feature Matching,Matching local visual features is a crucial problem in computer vision and its accuracy greatly depends on the choice of similarity measure. As it is generally very difficult to design by hand a similarity or a kernel perfectly adapted to the data of interest, learning it automatically with as few assumptions as possible is preferable. However, available techniques for kernel learning suffer from several limitations, such as restrictive parametrization or scalability. In this paper, we introduce a simple and flexible family of non-linear kernels which we refer to as Quantized Kernels (QK). QKs are arbitrary kernels in the index space of a data quantizer, i.e., piecewise constant similarities in the original feature space. Quantization allows to compress features and keep the learning tractable. As a result, we obtain state-of-the-art matching performance on a standard benchmark dataset with just a few bits to represent each feature dimension. QKs also have explicit non-linear, low-dimensional feature mappings that grant access to Euclidean geometry for uncompressed features.
Reputation-based Worker Filtering in Crowdsourcing,In this paper, we study the problem of aggregating noisy labels from crowd workers to infer the underlying true labels of binary tasks. Unlike most prior work which has examined this problem under the random worker paradigm, we consider a much broader class of {\em adversarial} workers with no specific assumptions on their labeling strategy. Our key contribution is the design of a computationally efficient reputation algorithm to identify and filter out these adversarial workers in crowdsourcing systems. Our algorithm uses the concept of optimal semi-matchings in conjunction with worker penalties based on label disagreements, to assign a reputation score for every worker. We provide strong theoretical guarantees for deterministic adversarial strategies as well as the extreme case of {\em sophisticated} adversaries where we analyze the worst-case behavior of our algorithm. Finally, we show that our reputation algorithm can significantly improve the accuracy of existing label aggregation algorithms in real-world crowdsourcing datasets.
Deep Symmetry Networks,The chief difficulty in object recognition is that objects' classes are obscured by a large number of extraneous sources of variability, such as pose and part deformation. These sources of variation can be represented by symmetry groups, sets of composable transformations that preserve object identity. Convolutional neural networks (convnets) achieve a degree of translational invariance by computing feature maps over the translation group, but cannot handle other groups. As a result, these groups' effects have to be approximated by small translations, which often requires augmenting datasets and leads to high sample complexity. In this paper, we introduce deep symmetry networks (symnets), a generalization of convnets that forms feature maps over arbitrary symmetry groups. Symnets use kernel-based interpolation to tractably tie parameters and pool over symmetry spaces of any dimension. Like convnets, they are trained with backpropagation. The composition of feature transformations through the layers of a symnet provides a new approach to deep learning. Experiments on NORB and MNIST-rot show that symnets over the affine group greatly reduce sample complexity relative to convnets by better capturing the symmetries in the data.
A Synaptical Story of Persistent Activity with Graded Lifetime in a Neural System,Persistent activity refers to the phenomenon that cortical neurons keep firing even after the stimulus triggering the initial neuronal responses is moved. Persistent activity is widely believed to be the substrate for a neural system retaining a memory trace of the stimulus information. In a conventional view, persistent activity is regarded as an attractor of the network dynamics, but it faces a challenge of how to be closed properly. Here, in contrast to the view of attractor, we consider that the stimulus information is encoded in a marginally unstable state of the network which decays very slowly and exhibits persistent firing for a prolonged duration. We propose a simple yet effective mechanism to achieve this goal, which utilizes the property of short-term plasticity (STP) of neuronal synapses. STP has two forms, short-term depression (STD) and short-term facilitation (STF), which have opposite effects on retaining neuronal responses. We find that by properly combining STF and STD, a neural system can hold persistent activity of graded lifetime, and that persistent activity fades away naturally without relying on an external drive. The implications of these results on neural information representation are discussed.
On the relations of LFPs & Neural Spike Trains,One of the goals of neuroscience is to identify neural networks that correlate with important behaviors, environments, or genotypes. This work proposes a strategy for identifying neural networks characterized by time- and frequency-dependent connectivity patterns, using convolutional dictionary learning that links spike-train data to local field potentials (LFPs) across multiple areas of the brain. Analytical contributions are: (i) modeling dynamic relationships between LFPs and spikes; (ii) describing the relationships between spikes and LFPs, by analyzing the ability to predict LFP data from one region based on spiking information from across the brain; and (iii) development of a clustering methodology that allows inference of similarities in neurons from multiple regions. Results are based on data sets in which spike and LFP data are recorded simultaneously from up to 16 brain regions in a mouse.
The Large Margin Mechanism for Differentially Private Maximization,A basic problem in the design of privacy-preserving algorithms is the \emph{private maximization problem}: the goal is to pick an item from a universe that (approximately) maximizes a data-dependent function, all under the constraint of differential privacy. This problem has been used as a sub-routine in many privacy-preserving algorithms for statistics and machine learning. Previous algorithms for this problem are either range-dependent---i.e., their utility diminishes with the size of the universe---or only apply to very restricted function classes. This work provides the first general purpose, range-independent algorithm for private maximization that guarantees approximate differential privacy. Its applicability is demonstrated on two fundamental tasks in data mining and machine learning.
Analog Memories in a Balanced Rate-Based Network of E-I Neurons,The persistent and graded activity often observed in cortical circuits is sometimes seen as a signature of autoassociative retrieval of memories stored earlier in synaptic efficacies. However, despite decades of theoretical work on the subject, the mechanisms that support the storage and retrieval of memories remain unclear. Previous proposals concerning the dynamics of memory networks have fallen short of incorporating some key physiological constraints in a unified way. Specifically, some models violate Dale's law (i.e. allow neurons to be both excitatory and inhibitory), while some others restrict the representation of memories to a binary format, or induce recall states in which some neurons fire at rates close to saturation. We propose a novel control-theoretic framework to build functioning attractor networks that satisfy a set of relevant physiological constraints. We directly optimize networks of excitatory and inhibitory neurons to force sets of arbitrary analog patterns to become stable fixed points of the dynamics. The resulting networks operate in the balanced regime, are robust to corruptions of the memory cue as well as to ongoing noise, and incidentally explain the reduction of trial-to-trial variability following stimulus onset that is ubiquitously observed in sensory and motor cortices. Our results constitute a step forward in our understanding of the neural substrate of memory.
Design Principles of the Hippocampal Cognitive Map,Hippocampal place fields have been shown to reflect behaviorally relevant aspects of space. For instance, place fields tend to be skewed along commonly traveled directions, they cluster around rewarded locations, and they are constrained by the geometric structure of the environment. We hypothesize a set of design principles for the hippocampal cognitive map that explain how place fields represent space in a way that facilitates navigation and reinforcement learning. In particular, we suggest that place fields encode not just information about the current location, but also predictions about future locations under the current transition distribution. Under this model, a variety of place field phenomena arise naturally from the structure of rewards, barriers, and directional biases as reflected in the transition policy. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this representation of space can support efficient reinforcement learning. We also propose that grid cells compute the eigendecomposition of place fields in part because is useful for segmenting an enclosure along natural boundaries. When applied recursively, this segmentation can be used to discover a hierarchical decomposition of space. Thus, grid cells might be involved in computing subgoals for hierarchical reinforcement learning.
Fundamental Limits of Online and Distributed Algorithms for Statistical Learning and Estimation,Many machine learning approaches are characterized by information constraints on how they interact with the training data. These include memory and sequential access constraints (e.g. fast first-order methods to solve stochastic optimization problems); communication constraints (e.g. distributed learning); partial access to the underlying data (e.g. missing features and multi-armed bandits) and more. However, currently we have little understanding how such information constraints fundamentally affect our performance, independent of the learning problem semantics. For example, are there learning problems where any algorithm which has small memory footprint (or can use any bounded number of bits from each example, or has certain communication constraints) will perform worse than what is possible without such constraints? In this paper, we describe how a single set of results implies positive answers to the above, for several different settings.
Content-based recommendations with Poisson factorization,We develop collaborative topic Poisson factorization (CTPF), a generative model of articles and reader preferences. CTPF can be used to build recommender systems by learning from reader histories and content to recommend personalized articles of interest. In detail, CTPF models both reader behavior and article texts with Poisson distributions, connecting the latent topics that represent the texts with the latent preferences that represent the readers. This provides better recommendations than competing methods and gives an interpretable latent space for understanding patterns of readership. Further, we exploit stochastic variational inference to model massive real-world datasets. For example, we can fit CPTF to the full arXiv usage dataset, which contains over 43 million ratings and 42 million word counts, within a day. We demonstrate empirically that our model outperforms several baselines, including the previous state-of-the-art approach.
Semi-supervised Learning with Deep Generative Models,The ever-increasing size of modern data sets combined with the difficulty of obtaining label information has made semi-supervised learning one of the problems of significant practical importance in modern data analysis. We revisit the approach to semi-supervised learning with generative models and develop new models that allow for effective generalisation from small labelled data sets to large unlabelled ones. Generative approaches have thus far been either inflexible, inefficient or non-scalable. We show that deep generative models and approximate Bayesian inference exploiting recent advances in variational methods can be used to provide significant improvements, making generative approaches highly competitive for semi-supervised learning.
Efficient Optimization for Average Precision SVM,The accuracy of information retrieval systems is often measured using average precision (AP). Given a set of positive (relevant) and negative (non-relevant) samples, the parameters of a retrieval system can be estimated using the AP-SVM framework, which minimizes a regularized convex upper bound on the empirical AP loss. However, the high computational complexity of loss-augmented inference, which is required for learning an AP-SVM, prohibits its use with large training datasets. To alleviate this deficiency, we propose three complementary approaches. The first approach guarantees an asymptotic decrease in the computational complexity of loss-augmented inference by exploiting the problem structure. The second approach takes advantage of the fact that we do not require a full ranking during loss-augmented inference. This helps us to avoid the expensive step of sorting the negative samples according to their individual scores. The third approach approximates the AP loss over all samples by the AP loss over difficult samples (for example, those that are incorrectly classified by a binary SVM), while ensuring the correct classification of the remaining samples. Using the PASCAL VOC action classification and object detection datasets, we show that our approaches provide significant speed-ups during training without degrading the test accuracy of AP-SVM.
Feedforward Learning of Mixture Models,We develop a biologically-plausible learning rule that provably converges to the class means of general mixture models. This rule generalizes the classical BCM neural rule within a tensor framework, substantially increasing the generality of the learning problem it solves. It achieves this by incorporating triplets of samples from the mixtures, which provides a novel information processing interpretation to spike-timing-dependent plasticity. We provide both proofs of convergence, and a close fit to experimental data on STDP.
Diverse Sequential Subset Selection for Supervised Video Summarization,Video summarization is a challenging problem with great application potential. Whereas prior approaches, largely unsupervised in nature, focus on sampling useful frames and assembling them as summaries, we consider video summarization as a supervised subset selection problem. Our idea is to teach the system to learn from human-created summaries how to select informative and diverse subsets, so as to best meet evaluation metrics derived from human-perceived quality. To this end, we propose the sequential determinantal point process (seqDPP), a probabilistic model for diverse sequential subset selection. Our novel seqDPP heeds the inherent sequential structures in video data, thus overcoming the deficiency of the standard DPP, which treats video frames as randomly permutable items. Meanwhile, seqDPP retains the power of modeling diverse subsets, essential for summarization. Our extensive results of summarizing videos from 3 datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our method, compared to not only existing unsupervised methods but also naive applications of the standard DPP model.
Conditional Random Field Autoencoders for Unsupervised Structured Prediction,We introduce a framework for unsupervised learning of structured predictors with overlapping, global features. Each input's latent representation is predicted conditional on the observed data using a feature-rich conditional random field (CRF). Then a reconstruction of the input is (re)generated, conditional on the latent structure, using a generative model which factorizes similarly to the CRF. The autoencoder formulation enables efficient exact inference without resorting to unrealistic independence assumptions or restricting the kinds of features that can be used. We illustrate insightful connections to traditional autoencoders, posterior regularization and multi-view learning. Finally, we show competitive results with instantiations of the framework for two canonical tasks in natural language processing: part-of-speech induction and bitext word alignment, and show that training our model can be substantially more efficient than comparable feature-rich baselines.
Predictive Entropy Search for Efficient Global Optimization of Black-box Functions,We propose a novel information-theoretic approach for Bayesian optimization called Predictive Entropy Search (PES). At each iteration, PES selects the next evaluation point that maximizes the expected information gained with respect to the global maximum. PES codifies this intractable acquisition function in terms of the expected reduction in the differential entropy of the predictive distribution. This reformulation allows PES to obtain approximations that are both more accurate and efficient than other alternatives such as Entropy Search (ES). Furthermore, PES can easily perform a fully Bayesian treatment of the model hyperparameters while ES cannot. We evaluate PES in both synthetic and real-world applications, including optimization problems in machine learning, finance, biotechnology, and robotics. We show that the increased accuracy of PES leads to significant gains in optimization performance.
Learning Distributed Representations for Structured Output Prediction,In recent years, distributed representations of inputs have led to performance gains in many applications by allowing statistical information to be shared across inputs. However, the predicted outputs (labels, and more generally structures) are still treated as discrete objects even though outputs are often not discrete units of meaning. In this paper, we present a new formulation for structured prediction where we represent individual labels in a structure as dense vectors and allow semantically similar labels to share parameters. We extend this representation to larger structures by defining compositionality using tensor products to give a natural generalization of standard structured prediction approaches. We define a learning objective for jointly learning the model parameters and the label vectors and propose an alternating minimization algorithm for learning. We show that our formulation outperforms structural SVM baselines in two tasks: multiclass document classification and part-of-speech tagging.
Covariance shrinkage for autocorrelated data,The accurate estimation of covariance matrices is essential for many signal processing and machine learning algorithms. In high dimensional settings the sample covariance is known to perform poorly, hence regularization strategies such as analytic shrinkage of Ledoit/Wolf are applied. In the standard setting, i.i.d. data is assumed, however, in practice, time series typically exhibit strong autocorrelation structure, which introduces a pronounced estimation bias. Recent work by Sancetta has extended the shrinkage framework beyond i.i.d. data. We contribute in this work by showing that the Sancetta estimator, while being consistent in the high-dimensional limit, suffers from a high bias in finite sample sizes. We propose an alternative estimator, which is (1) unbiased, (2) less sensitive to hyperparameter choice and (3) yields superior performance in simulations on toy data and on a real world data set from an EEG-based Brain-Computer-Interfacing experiment.
Proximal Quasi-Newton for Computationally Intensive L1-regularized M-estimators,We consider the class of optimization problems arising from computationally intensive L1-regularized M-estimators, where the function or gradient values are very expensive to compute. A particular instance of interest is the L1-regularized MLE for learning Conditional Random Fields (CRFs), which are a popular class of statistical models for varied structured prediction problems such as sequence labeling, alignment, and classification with label taxonomy. L1-regularized MLEs for CRFs are particularly expensive to optimize since computing the gradient values requires an expensive inference step. In this work, we propose the use of a carefully constructed proximal quasi-Newton algorithm for such computationally intensive M-estimation problems, where we employ an aggressive active set selection technique. In a key contribution of the paper, we show that our proximal quasi-Newton algorithm is provably super-linearly convergent, even in the absence of strong convexity, by leveraging a restricted variant of strong convexity. In our experiments, the proposed algorithm converges considerably faster than current state-of-the-art on the problems of sequence labeling and hierarchical classification.
Submodular meets Structured: Finding Diverse Subsets in Exponentially-Large Structured Item Sets,To cope with the high level of ambiguity faced in domains such as Computer Vision or Natural Language processing, robust prediction methods often search for a diverse set of high-quality candidate solutions or proposals. In structured prediction problems, this becomes a daunting task, as the solution space (image labelings, sentence parses, etc.) is exponentially large. We study greedy algorithms for finding a diverse subset of solutions in structured-output spaces by drawing new connections between submodular functions over combinatorial item sets and High-Order Potentials (HOPs) studied for graphical models. Specifically, we show via examples that when marginal gains of submodular diversity functions allow structured representations, this enables efficient (sub-linear time) approximate maximization by reducing the greedy augmentation step to inference in a factor graph with appropriately constructed HOPs. We discuss benefits, tradeoffs, and show that our constructions lead to significantly better proposals.
Nonparametric Bayesian inference on multivariate exponential families,We develop a model by choosing the maximum entropy distribution from the set of models satisfying certain smoothness and independence criteria; we show that inference on this model generalizes local kernel estimation to the context of Bayesian inference on stochastic processes. Our model enables Bayesian inference in contexts when standard techniques like Gaussian process inference are too expensive to apply. Exact inference on our model is possible for any likelihood function from the exponential family. Inference is then highly efficient, requiring only O(log N) time and O(N) space at run time. We demonstrate our algorithm on several problems and show quantifiable improvement in both speed and performance relative to models based on the Gaussian process.
Large-scale L-BFGS using MapReduce,L-BFGS has been applied as an effective parameter estimation method for various machine learning algorithms since 1980s. With an increasing demand to deal with massive instances and variables, it is important to scale up and parallelize L-BFGS effectively in a distributed system. In this paper, we study the problem of parallelizing the L-BFGS algorithm in large clusters of tens of thousands of shared-nothing commodity machines. First, we show that a naive implementation of L-BFGS using Map-Reduce requires either a significant amount of memory or a large number of map-reduce steps with negative performance impact. Second, we propose a new L-BFGS algorithm, called Vector-free L-BFGS, which avoids the expensive dot product operations in the two loop recursion and greatly improves computation efficiency with a great degree of parallelism. The algorithm scales very well and enables a variety of machine learning algorithms to handle a massive number of variables over large datasets. We prove the mathematical equivalence of the new Vector-free L-BFGS and demonstrate its excellent performance and scalability using real-world machine learning problems with billions of variables in production clusters.
Discovering, Learning and Exploiting Relevance,In this paper we consider the problem of learning online what is the information to consider when making sequential decisions. We formalize this as a contextual multi-armed bandit problem where a high dimensional ($D$-dimensional) context vector arrives to a learner which needs to select an action to maximize its expected reward at each time step. Each dimension of the context vector is called a type. We assume that there exists an unknown relation between actions and types, called the relevance relation, such that the reward of an action only depends on the contexts of the relevant types. When the relation is a function, i.e., the reward of an action only depends on the context of a single type, and the expected reward of an action is Lipschitz continuous in the context of its relevant type, we propose an algorithm that achieves $\tilde{O}(T^{\gamma})$ regret with a high probability, where $\gamma=2/(1+\sqrt{2})$. Our algorithm achieves this by learning the unknown relevance relation, whereas prior contextual bandit algorithms that do not exploit the existence of a relevance relation will have $\tilde{O}(T^{(D+1)/(D+2)})$ regret. Our algorithm alternates between exploring and exploiting, it does not require reward observations in exploitations, and it guarantees with a high probability that actions with suboptimality greater than $\epsilon$ are never selected in exploitations. Our proposed method can be applied to a variety of learning applications including medical diagnosis, recommender systems, popularity prediction from social networks, network security etc., where at each instance of time vast amounts of different types of information are available to the decision maker, but the effect of an action depends only on a single type.
Learning on graphs using Orthonormal Representation is Statistically Consistent,Existing research \cite{reg} suggests that embedding graphs on a unit sphere can be beneficial in learning labels on the vertices of a graph. However the choice of optimal embedding remains an open issue. \emph{Orthonormal representation} of graphs, a class of embeddings over the unit sphere, was introduced by Lov\'asz \cite{lovasz_shannon}. In this paper, we show that there exists orthonormal representations which are statistically consistent over a large class of graphs, including power law and random graphs. This result is achieved by extending the notion of consistency designed in the inductive setting to graph transduction. As part of the analysis, we explicitly derive relationships between the Rademacher complexity measure and structural properties of graphs, such as the chromatic number. We further show the fraction of vertices of a graph $G$, on $n$ nodes, that need to be labelled for the learning algorithm to be consistent, also known as labelled sample complexity, is $ \Omega\left(\frac{\vartheta(G)}{n}\right)^{\frac{1}{4}}$ where $\vartheta(G)$ is the famous Lov\'asz~$\vartheta$ function of the graph. This, for the first time, relates labelled sample complexity to graph connectivity properties, such as the density of graphs. In the multiview setting, whenever individual views are expressed by a graph, it is a well known heuristic that a convex combination of Laplacians \cite{lap_mv1} tend to improve accuracy. The analysis presented here easily extends to Multiple graph transduction, and helps develop a sound statistical understanding of the heuristic, previously unavailable.
Tight Bounds for Influence in Diffusion Networks and Application to Bond Percolation and Epidemiology,In this paper, we derive theoretical bounds for the long-term influence of a node in an Independent Cascade Model (ICM). We relate these bounds to the spectral radius of a particular matrix and show that the behavior is sub-critical when this spectral radius is lower than 1. More specifically, we point out that, in general networks, the sub-critical regime behaves in O(sqrt(n)) where n is the size of the network, and that this upper bound is met for star-shaped networks. We apply our results to epidemiology and percolation on arbitrary networks, and derive a bound for the critical value beyond which a giant connected component arises. Finally, we show empirically the tightness of our bounds for a large family of networks.
Extreme bandits,In many areas of medicine, security, and life sciences, we want to allocate limited resources to different sources in order to detect extreme values. In this paper, we study an efficient way to allocate these resources sequentially under limited feedback. While sequential design of experiments is well studied in bandit theory, the most commonly optimized property is the regret with respect to the maximum mean reward. However, in other problems such as network intrusion detection, we are interested in detecting the most extreme value output by the sources. Therefore, in our work we study extreme regret which measures the efficiency of an algorithm compared to the oracle policy selecting the source with the heaviest tail. We propose the ExtremeHunter algorithm, provide its analysis, and evaluate it empirically on synthetic and real-world experiments.
A Latent Source Model for Online Collaborative Filtering,Despite the prevalence of collaborative filtering in recommendation systems, there has been little theoretical development on why and how well it works, especially in the ``online'' setting, where items are recommended to users over time. We address this theoretical gap by introducing a model for online recommendation systems, cast item recommendation under the model as a learning problem, and analyze the performance of a cosine-similarity collaborative filtering method. In our model, each of $n$ users either likes or dislikes each of $m$ items. We assume there to be $k$ types of users, and all the users of a given type share a common string of probabilities determining the chance of liking each item. At each time step, we recommend an item to each user, where a key distinction from related bandit literature is that once a user consumes an item (e.g., watches a movie), then that item cannot be recommended to the same user again. The goal is to maximize the number of likable items recommended to users over time. Our main result establishes that after nearly $\log(km)$ initial learning time steps, a simple collaborative filtering algorithm achieves essentially optimal performance without knowing $k$. The algorithm has an exploitation step that uses cosine similarity and two types of exploration steps, one to explore the space of items (standard in the literature) and the other to explore similarity between users (novel to this work).
Scalable Inference for Neuronal Connectivity from Calcium Imaging,Fluorescent calcium imaging provides a potentially powerful tool for inferring connectivity in neural circuits with up to thousands of neurons. However, a key challenge in using calcium imaging for connectivity detection is that current systems often have a temporal response and frame rate that can be orders of magnitude slower than the underlying neural spiking process. Bayesian inference based on expectation-maximization (EM) have been proposed to overcome these limitations, but they are often computationally demanding since the E-step in the EM procedure typically involves state estimation in a high-dimensional nonlinear dynamical system. In this work, we propose a computationally fast method for the state estimation based on a hybrid of loopy belief propagation and approximate message passing (AMP). The key insight is that a neural system as viewed through calcium imaging can be factorized into simple scalar dynamical systems for each neuron with linear interconnections between the neurons. Using the structure, the updates in the proposed hybrid AMP methodology can be computed by a set of one-dimensional state estimation procedures and linear transforms with the connectivity matrix. This yields a computationally scalable method for inferring connectivity of large neural circuits. Simulations of the method on realistic neural networks demonstrate good accuracy with computation times that are potentially significantly faster than current approaches based on Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods.
A Multi-World Approach to Question Answering about Real-World Scenes based on Uncertain Input,We propose a method for automatically answering questions about images by bringing together recent advances from natural language processing and computer vision. We combine discrete reasoning with uncertain predictions by a multi-world approach that represents uncertainty about the perceived world in a bayesian framework. Our approach can handle human questions of high complexity about realistic scenes and replies with range of answer like counts, object classes, instances and lists of them. The system is directly trained from question-answer pairs. We establish a first benchmark for this task that can be seen as a modern attempt at a visual turing test.
Variational Gaussian Process State-Space Models,State-space models have been successfully used for more than fifty years in different areas of science and engineering. We present a procedure for efficient variational Bayesian learning of nonlinear state-space models based on sparse Gaussian processes. The result of learning is a tractable posterior over nonlinear dynamical systems. In comparison to conventional parametric models, we offer the possibility to straightforwardly trade off model capacity and computational cost whilst avoiding overfitting. Our main algorithm uses a hybrid inference approach combining variational Bayes and sequential Monte Carlo. We also present stochastic variational inference and online learning approaches for fast learning with long time series.
Probabilistic low-rank matrix completion on finite alphabets,The task of reconstructing a matrix given a sample of observed entries is known as the \emph{matrix completion problem}. Such a consideration arises in a wide variety of problems, including recommender systems, collaborative filtering, dimensionality reduction, image processing, quantum physics or multi-class classification to name a few. Most works have focused on recovering an unknown real-valued low-rank matrix from randomly sub-sampling its entries. Here, we investigate the case where the observations take a finite numbers of values, corresponding for examples to ratings in recommender systems or labels in multi-class classification. We also consider a general sampling scheme (non-necessarily uniform) over the matrix entries. The performance of a nuclear-norm penalized estimator is analyzed theoretically. More precisely, we derive bounds for the Kullback-Leibler divergence between the true and estimated distributions. In practice, we have also proposed an efficient algorithm based on lifted coordinate gradient descent in order to tackle potentially high dimensional settings.
Extremal Mechanisms for Local Differential Privacy,Local differential privacy has recently surfaced as a strong measure of privacy in contexts where personal information remains private even from data analysts. Working in a setting where the data providers and data analysts want to maximize the utility of statistical inferences performed on the released data, we study the fundamental tradeoff between local differential privacy and information theoretic utility functions. We introduce a family of extremal privatization mechanisms, which we call staircase mechanisms, and prove that it contains the optimal privatization mechanism that maximizes utility. We further show that for all information theoretic utility functions studied in this paper, maximizing utility is equivalent to solving a linear program, the outcome of which is the optimal staircase mechanism. However, solving this linear program can be computationally expensive since it has a number of variables that is exponential in the data size. To account for this, we show that two simple staircase mechanisms, the binary and randomized response mechanisms, are universally optimal in the high and low privacy regimes, respectively, and well approximate the intermediate regime.
Gaussian Process Volatility Model,The prediction of time-changing variances is an important task in the modeling of financial data. Standard econometric models are often limited as they assume rigid functional relationships for the evolution of the variance. Moreover, functional parameters are usually learned by maximum likelihood, which can lead to overfitting. To address these problems we introduce GP-Vol, a novel non-parametric model for time-changing variances based on Gaussian Processes. This new model can capture highly flexible functional relationships for the variances. Furthermore, we introduce a new online algorithm for fast inference in GP-Vol. This method is much faster than current offline inference procedures and it avoids overfitting problems by following a fully Bayesian approach. Experiments with financial data show that GP-Vol performs significantly better than current standard alternatives.
Robust Tensor Decomposition with Gross Corruption,In this paper, we study the statistical performance of robust tensor decomposition with gross corruption. The observations are noisy realization of the superposition of a low-rank tensor $\mathcal{W}^*$ and an entrywise sparse corruption tensor $\mathcal{V}^*$. Unlike conventional noise with bounded variance in previous convex tensor decomposition analysis, the magnitude of the gross corruption can be arbitrary large. We show that under certain conditions, the true low-rank tensor as well as the sparse corruption tensor can be recovered simultaneously. Our theory yields nonasymptotic Frobenius-norm estimation error bounds for each tensor separately. We show through numerical experiments that our theory can precisely predict the scaling behavior in practice.
Minimax-optimal Inference from Partial Rankings,This paper studies the problem of rank aggregation under the Plackett-Luce model. The goal is to infer a global ranking and related scores of the items, based on partial rankings provided by multiple users over multiple subsets of items. A question of particular interest is how to optimally assign items to users for ranking and how many item assignments are needed to achieve a target estimation error. Without any assumptions on how the items are assigned to users, we derive an oracle lower bound and the Cram\'er-Rao lower bound of the estimation error. We prove an upper bound on the estimation error achieved by the maximum likelihood estimator, and show that both the upper bound and the Cram\'er-Rao lower bound inversely depend on the spectral gap of the Laplacian of an appropriately defined comparison graph. Since random comparison graphs are known to have large spectral gaps, this suggests the use of random assignments when we have the control. Precisely, the matching oracle lower bound and the upper bound on the estimation error imply that the maximum likelihood estimator together with a random assignment is minimax-optimal up to a logarithmic factor. We further analyze a popular rank-breaking scheme that decompose partial rankings into pairwise comparisons. We show that even if one applies the mismatched maximum likelihood estimator that assumes independence (on pairwise comparisons that are now dependent due to rank-breaking), minimax optimal performance is still achieved up to a logarithmic factor.
Mind the Nuisance: Gaussian Process Classification using Privileged Noise,The learning with privileged information setting has recently attracted a lot of attention within the machine learning community, as it allows the integration of additional knowledge into the training process of a classifier, even when this comes in the form of a data modality that is not available at test time. Here, we show that privileged information can naturally be treated as noise in the latent function of a Gaussian process classifier (GPC). That is, in contrast to the standard GPC setting, the latent function is not just a nuisance but a feature: it becomes a natural measure of confidence about the training data by modulating the slope of the GPC probit likelihood function. Extensive experiments on public datasets show that the proposed GPC method using privileged noise, called GPC+, improves over a standard GPC without privileged knowledge, and also over the current state-of-the-art SVM-based method, SVM+. Moreover, we show that advanced neural networks and deep learning methods can be compressed as privileged information.
A Bayesian model for identifying hierarchically organised states in neural population activity,Neural population activity in cortical circuits is not solely driven by external inputs, but is also modulated by endogenous states which vary on multiple time-scales. To understand information processing in cortical circuits, we need to understand the statistical structure of internal states and their interaction with sensory inputs. Here, we present a statistical model for extracting hierarchically organised neural population states from multi-channel recordings of neural spiking activity. Population states are modelled using a hidden Markov decision tree with state-dependent tuning parameters and a generalised linear observation model. We present a variational Bayesian inference algorithm for estimating the posterior distribution over parameters from neural population recordings. On simulated data, we show that we can identify the underlying sequence of population states and reconstruct the ground truth parameters. Using population recordings from visual cortex, we find that a model with two levels of population states outperforms both a one-state and a two-state generalised linear model. Finally, we find that modelling of state-dependence also improves the accuracy with which sensory stimuli can be decoded from the population response.
Feedback Detection for Live Predictors,A predictor that is deployed in a live production system may perturb the features it uses to make predictions. Such a feedback loop can occur, for example, when a model that predicts a certain type of behavior ends up causing the behavior it predicts, thus creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. In this paper we analyze predictor feedback detection as a causal inference problem, and introduce a local randomization scheme that can be used to detect non-linear feedback in real-world problems. We conduct a pilot study for our proposed methodology using a predictive system currently deployed as a part of a search engine.
Discriminative Metric Learning by Neighborhood Gerrymandering,We formulate the problem of metric learning for k nearest neighbor classification as a large margin structured prediction problem, with a latent variable representing the choice of neighbors and the task loss directly corresponding to classification error. We describe an efficient algorithm for exact loss augmented inference,and a fast gradient descent algorithm for learning in this model. The objective drives the metric to establish neighborhood boundaries that benefit the true class labels for the training points. Our approach, reminiscent of gerrymandering (redrawing of political boundaries to provide advantage to certain parties), is more direct in its handling of optimizing classification accuracy than those previously proposed. In experiments on a variety of data sets our method is shown to achieve excellent results compared to current state of the art in metric learning.
Optimal Neural Codes for Control and Estimation,Agents acting in the natural world aim at selecting appropriate actions based on noisy and partial sensory observations. Many behaviors leading to decision making and action selection in a closed loop setting are naturally phrased within a control theoretic framework. Within the framework of optimal Control Theory, one is usually given a cost function which is minimized by selecting a control law based on the observations. While in standard control settings the sensors are assumed fixed, biological systems often gain from the extra flexibility of optimizing the sensors themselves. However, this sensory adaptation is geared towards control rather than perception, as is often assumed. In this work we show that sensory adaptation for control differs from sensory adaptation for perception, even for simple control setups. This implies, consistently with recent experimental results, that when studying sensory adaptation, it is essential to account for the task being performed.
Spatio-temporal Representations of Uncertainty in Spiking Neural Networks,It has been long argued that, because of inherent ambiguity and noise, the brain needs to represent uncertainty in the form of probability distributions. The neural encoding of such distributions remains however highly controversial. Here we present a novel circuit model for representing multidimensional real-valued distributions using a spike based spatio-temporal code. Our model combines the computational advantages of the currently competing models for probabilistic codes and exhibits realistic neural responses along a variety of classic measures. Furthermore, the model highlights the challenges associated with interpreting neural activity in relation to behavioral uncertainty and points to alternative population-level approaches for the experimental validation of distributed representations.
Fast Kernel Learning for Multidimensional Pattern Extrapolation,The ability to automatically discover patterns and perform extrapolation is an essential quality of intelligent systems. Kernel methods, such as Gaussian processes, have great potential for pattern extrapolation, since the kernel flexibly and interpretably controls the generalisation properties of these methods. However, automatically extrapolating large scale multidimensional patterns is in general difficult, and developing Gaussian process models for this purpose involves several challenges. A vast majority of kernels, and kernel learning methods, currently only succeed in smoothing and interpolation. This difficulty is compounded by the fact that Gaussian processes are typically only tractable for small datasets, and scaling an expressive kernel learning approach poses different challenges than scaling a standard Gaussian process model. One faces additional computational constraints, and the need to retain significant model structure for expressing the rich information available in a large dataset. In this paper, we propose a Gaussian process approach for large scale multidimensional pattern extrapolation. We recover sophisticated out of class kernels, perform texture extrapolation, inpainting, and video extrapolation, and long range forecasting of land surface temperatures, all on large multidimensional datasets, including a problem with 383,400 training points. The proposed method significantly outperforms alternative scalable and flexible Gaussian process methods, in speed and accuracy. Moreover, we show that a distinct combination of expressive kernels, a fully non-parametric representation, and scalable inference which exploits existing model structure, are critical for large scale multidimensional pattern extrapolation.
The Noisy Power Method: A Meta Algorithm with Applications,We provide a new robust convergence analysis of the well-known power method for computing the dominant singular vectors of a matrix that we call noisy power method. Our result characterizes the convergence behavior of the algorithm when a large amount noise is introduced after each matrix-vector multiplication. The noisy power method can be seen as a meta-algorithm that has recently found a number of important applications in a broad range of machine learning problems including alternating minimization for matrix completion, streaming principal component analysis (PCA), and privacy-preserving spectral analysis. Our general analysis subsumes several existing ad-hoc convergence bounds and resolves a number of open problems in multiple applications. A recent work of Mitliagkas et al.~(NIPS 2013) gives a space-efficient algorithm for PCA in a streaming model where samples are drawn from a spiked covariance model. We give a simpler and more general analysis that applies to arbitrary distributions. Moreover, even in the spiked covariance model our result gives quantitative improvements in a natural parameter regime. As a second application, we provide an algorithm for differentially private principal component analysis that runs in nearly linear time in the input sparsity and achieves nearly tight worst-case error bounds. Complementing our worst-case bounds, we show that the error dependence of our algorithm on the matrix dimension can be replaced by an essentially tight dependence on the coherence of the matrix. This result resolves the main problem left open by Hardt and Roth (STOC 2013) and leads to strong average-case improvements over the optimal worst-case bound.
DFacTo: Distributed Factorization of Tensors,We present a technique for significantly speeding up Alternating Least Squares (ALS) and Gradient Descent (GD), two widely used algorithms for tensor factorization. By exploiting properties of the Khatri-Rao product, we show how to efficiently address a computationally challenging sub-step of both algorithms. Our algorithm, DFacTo, only requires two matrix-vector products and is easy to parallelize. DFacTo is not only scalable but also on average 4 to 10 times faster than competing algorithms on a variety of datasets. For instance, DFacTo only takes 480 seconds on 4 machines to perform one iteration of the ALS algorithm and 1,143 seconds to perform one iteration of the GD algorithm on a 6.5 million x 2.5 million x 1.5 million dimensional tensor with 1.2 billion non-zero entries.
Conditional Swap Regret and Conditional Correlated Equilibrium,We introduce a natural extension of the notion of swap regret, conditional swap regret, that allows for action modifications conditioned on the players action history. We prove a series of new results for conditional swap regret minimization. We present algorithms for minimizing conditional swap regret with bounded conditioning history. We further extend these results to the case where conditional swaps are considered only for a subset of actions. We also define a new notion of equilibrium, conditional correlated equilibrium, that is tightly connected to the notion of conditional swap regret: when all players follow conditional swap regret minimization strategies, then the empirical distribution approaches this equilibrium. Finally, we extend our results to the multi-armed bandit scenario.
Discrete Graph Hashing,Hashing has emerged as a popular technique for fast nearest neighbor search in gigantic databases. In particular, learning based hashing has received considerable attention due to its appealing storage and search efficiency. However, the performance of most unsupervised learning based hashing methods deteriorates rapidly as the hash code length increases. We argue that the degraded performance is due to inferior optimization procedures used to achieve discrete binary codes. This paper presents a graph-based unsupervised hashing model to preserve the neighborhood structure of massive data in a discrete code space. We cast the graph hashing problem into a discrete optimization framework which directly learns the binary codes. A tractable alternating maximization algorithm is then proposed to explicitly deal with the discrete constraints, yielding high-quality codes to well capture the local neighborhoods. Extensive experiments performed on four large datasets with up to one million samples show that our discrete optimization based graph hashing method obtains superior search accuracy over state-of-the-art unsupervised hashing methods, especially for longer codes.
Sparse PCA via Covariance Thresholding,In sparse principal component analysis we are given noisy observations of a low-rank matrix of dimension $n\times p$ and seek to reconstruct it under additional sparsity assumptions. In particular, we assume here that the principal components $\bv_1,\dots,\bv_r$ have at most $k_1, \cdots, k_q$ non-zero entries respectively, and study the high-dimensional regime in which $p$ is of the same order as $n$. In an influential paper, Johnstone and Lu \cite{johnstone2004sparse} introduced a simple algorithm that estimates the support of the principal vectors $\bv_1,\dots,\bv_r$ by the largest entries in the diagonal of the empirical covariance. This method can be shown to succeed with high probability if $k_q \le C_1\sqrt{n/\log p}$, and to fail with high probability if $k_q\ge C_2 \sqrt{n/\log p}$ for two constants $0 < C_1,C_2 < \infty$. Despite a considerable amount of work over the last ten years, no practical algorithm exists with provably better support recovery guarantees. Here we analyze a covariance thresholding algorithm that was recently proposed by Krauthgamer, Nadler and Vilenchik \cite{KrauthgamerSPCA}. We confirm empirical evidence presented by these authors and rigorously prove that the algorithm succeeds with high probability for $k$ of order $\sqrt{n}$. Recent conditional lower bounds \cite{berthet2013computational} suggest that it might be impossible to do significantly better. The key technical component of our analysis develops new bounds on the norm of kernel random matrices, in regimes that were not considered before.
Metric Learning for Temporal Sequence Alignment,In this paper, we propose to learn a Mahalanobis distance to perform alignment of multivariate time series. The learning examples for this task are time series for which the true alignment is known. We cast the alignment problem as a structured prediction task, and propose realistic losses between alignments for which the optimization is tractable. We provide experiments on real data in the audio-to-audio context, where we show that the learning of a similarity measure leads to improvements in the performance of the alignment task. We also propose to use this metric learning framework to perform feature selection and, from basic audio features, build a combination of these with better alignment performance.
A Differential Equation for Modeling Nesterovs Accelerated Gradient Method: Theory and Insights,We derive a second-order ordinary differential equation (ODE), which is the limit of Nesterovs accelerated gradient method. This ODE exhibits approximate equivalence to Nesterovs scheme and thus can serve as a tool for analysis. We show that the continuous time ODE allows for a better understanding of Nesterovs scheme. As a byproduct, we obtain a family of schemes with similar convergence rates. The ODE interpretation also suggests restarting Nesterovs scheme leading to an algorithm, which can be rigorously proven to converge at a linear rate whenever the objective is strongly convex.
Ranking via Robust Binary Classification,We propose RoBiRank, a ranking algorithm that is motivated by observing a close connection between evaluation metrics for learning to rank and loss functions for robust classification. The algorithm shows a very competitive performance on standard benchmark datasets against other representative algorithms in the literature. Further, in large scale problems where explicit feature vectors and scores are not given, our algorithm can be efficiently parallelized across a large number of machines; for a task that requires 386,133 x 49,824,519 pairwise interactions between items to be ranked, our algorithm finds solutions that are of dramatically higher quality than that can be found by a state-of-the-art competitor algorithm, given the same amount of wall-clock time for computation.
Deep Learning for Real-Time Atari Game Play Using Offline Monte-Carlo Tree Search Planning,The combination of modern Reinforcement Learning and Deep Learning approaches holds the promise of making significant progress on challenging applications requiring both rich perception and policy-selection. The Arcade Learning Environment (ALE) provides a set of Atari games that represent a useful benchmark set of such applications. A recent breakthrough in combining model-free reinforcement learning with deep learning, called DQN, achieves the best real-time agents thus far. Planning-based approaches achieve far higher scores than the best model-free approaches, but they exploit information that is not available to human players, and they are orders of magnitude slower than needed for real-time play. Our main goal in this work is to build a better real-time Atari game playing agent than DQN. The central idea is to use the slow planning-based agents to provide training data for a deep-learning architecture capable of real-time play. We proposed new agents based on this idea and show that they outperform DQN.
A Multiplicative Model for Learning Distributed Text-Based Attribute Representations,In this paper we propose a general framework for learning distributed representations of attributes: characteristics of text whose representations can be jointly learned with word embeddings. Attributes can correspond to a wide variety of concepts, such as document indicators (to learn sentence vectors), language indicators (to learn distributed language representations), meta-data and side information (such as the age, gender and industry of a blogger) or representations of authors. We describe a third-order model where word context and attribute vectors interact multiplicatively to predict the next word in a sequence. This leads to the notion of conditional word similarity: how meanings of words change when conditioned on different attributes. We perform several experimental tasks including sentiment classification, cross-lingual document classification, and blog authorship attribution. We also qualitatively evaluate conditional word neighbours and attribute-conditioned text generation.
Do Convnets Learn Correspondence?,Convolutional neural nets (convnets) trained from massive labeled datasets have substantially improved the state-of-the-art in image classification and object detection. However, visual understanding requires establishing correspondence on a finer level than object category. Given their large pooling regions and training from whole-image labels, it is not clear that convnets derive their success from an accurate correspondence model which could be used for precise localization. In this paper, we study the effectiveness of convnet activation features for tasks requiring correspondence. We present evidence that convnet features localize at a much finer scale than their receptive field sizes, that they can be used to perform intraclass aligment as well as conventional hand-engineered features, and that they outperform conventional features in keypoint prediction on objects from PASCAL VOC 2011.
On the Number of Linear Regions of Deep Neural Networks,We study the complexity of functions computable by deep feedforward neural networks with piecewise linear activations in terms of the symmetries and the number of linear regions that they have. Deep networks are able to sequentially map portions of each layer's input-space to the same output. In this way, deep models compute functions that react equally to complicated patterns of different inputs. The compositional structure of these functions enables them to re-use pieces of computation exponentially often in terms of the network's depth. This paper investigates the complexity of such compositional maps and contributes new theoretical results regarding the advantage of depth for neural networks with piecewise linear activation functions. In particular, our analysis is not specific to a single family of models, and as an example, we employ it for rectifier and maxout networks. We improve complexity bounds from pre-existing work and investigate the behavior of units in higher layers.
Online and Stochastic Gradient Methods for Non-decomposable Loss Functions,Modern applications in sensitive domains such as biometrics and medicine frequently require the use of non-decomposable loss functions such as precision@k, F-measure etc. Compared to point loss functions such as hinge-loss, these offer much more fine grained control over prediction, but at the same time present novel challenges in terms of algorithm design and analysis. In this work we initiate a study of online learning techniques for such non-decomposable loss functions with an aim to enable incremental learning as well as design scalable solvers for batch problems. To this end, we propose an online learning framework for such loss functions. Our model enjoys several nice properties, chief amongst them being the existence of efficient online learning algorithms with sublinear regret and online to batch conversion bounds. Our model is a provable extension of existing online learning models for point loss functions. We instantiate two popular losses, Prec @k and pAUC, in our model and prove sublinear regret bounds for both of them. Our proofs require a novel structural lemma over ranked lists which may be of independent interest. We then develop scalable stochastic gradient descent solvers for non-decomposable loss functions. We show that for a large family of loss functions satisfying a certain uniform convergence property (that includes Prec @k, pAUC, and F-measure), our methods provably converge to the empirical risk minimizer. Such uniform convergence results were not known for these losses and we establish these using novel proof techniques. We then use extensive experimentation on real life and benchmark datasets to establish that our method can be orders of magnitude faster than a recently proposed cutting plane method.
Stochastic Multi-Armed-Bandit Problem with Non-stationary Rewards,In a multi-armed bandit (MAB) problem a gambler needs to choose at each round of play one of K arms, each characterized by an unknown reward distribution. Reward realizations are only observed when an arm is selected, and the gambler's objective is to maximize his cumulative expected earnings over some given horizon of play T. To do this, the gambler needs to acquire information about arms (exploration) while simultaneously optimizing immediate rewards (exploitation); the price paid due to this trade off is often referred to as the regret, and the main question is how small can this price be as a function of the horizon length T. This problem has been studied extensively when the reward distributions do not change over time; an assumption that supports a sharp characterization of the regret, yet is often violated in practical settings. In this paper, we focus on a MAB formulation which allows for a broad range of temporal uncertainties in the rewards, while still maintaining mathematical tractability. We fully characterize the (regret) complexity of this class of MAB problems by establishing a direct link between the extent of allowable reward "variation" and the minimal achievable regret, and by establishing a connection between the adversarial and the stochastic MAB frameworks.
Finding a sparse vector in a subspace: Linear sparsity using alternating directions,We consider the problem of recovering the sparsest vector in a subspace $ \mathcal{S} \in \mathbb{R}^p $ with $ \text{dim}(\mathcal{S})=n$. This problem can be considered a homogeneous variant of the sparse recovery problem, and finds applications in sparse dictionary learning, sparse PCA, and other problems in signal processing and machine learning. Simple convex heuristics for this problem provably break down when the fraction of nonzero entries in the target sparse vector substantially exceeds $1/ \sqrt{n}$. In contrast, we exhibit a relatively simple nonconvex approach based on alternating directions, which provably succeeds even when the fraction of nonzero entries is $\Omega(1)$. To our knowledge, this is the first practical algorithm to achieve this linear scaling. This result assumes a planted sparse model, in which the target sparse vector is embedded in an otherwise random subspace. Empirically, our proposed algorithm also succeeds in more challenging data models arising, e.g., from sparse dictionary learning.
Median Selection Subset Aggregation for Parallel Inference,For massive data sets, efficient computation commonly relies on distributed algorithms that store and process subsets of the data on different machines, minimizing communication costs. Our focus is on regression and classification problems involving many features. A variety of distributed algorithms have been proposed in this context, but challenges arise in defining an algorithm with low communication, theoretical guarantees and excellent practical performance in general settings. We propose a MEdian Selection Subset AGgregation Estimator (message) algorithm, which attempts to solve these problems. The algorithm applies feature selection in parallel for each subset using Lasso or another method, calculates the `median' feature inclusion index, estimates coefficients for the selected features in parallel for each subset, and then averages these estimates. The algorithm is simple, involves very minimal communication, scales efficiently in both sample and feature size, and has theoretical guarantees. In particular, we show model selection consistency and coefficient estimation efficiency. Extensive experiments show excellent performance in variable selection, estimation, prediction, and computation time relative to usual competitors.
Stochastic Gradient Descent, Weighted Sampling, and the Randomized Kaczmarz algorithm,We improve a recent gurantee of Bach and Moulines on the linear convergence of SGD for smooth and strongly convex objectives, reducing a quadratic dependence on the strong convexity to a linear dependence. Furthermore, we show how reweighting the sampling distribution (i.e. importance sampling) is necessary in order to further improve convergence, and obtain a linear dependence on average smoothness, dominating previous results, and more broadly discus how importance sampling for SGD can improve convergence also in other scenarios. Our results are based on a connection we make between SGD and the randomized Kaczmarz algorithm, which allows us to transfer ideas between the separate bodies of literature studying each of the two methods.
Learning Time-Varying Coverage Functions,Coverage functions are an important class of discrete functions that capture laws of diminishing returns. In this paper, we propose a new problem of learning time-varying coverage functions which arise naturally from applications in social network analysis, machine learning, and algorithmic game theory. We develop a novel parametrization of the time-varying coverage function by illustrating the connections with counting processes. We present an efficient algorithm to learn the parameters by maximum likelihood estimation, and provide a rigorous theoretic analysis of its sample complexity. Empirical experiments from information diffusion in social network analysis demonstrate that with few assumptions about the underlying diffusion process, our method performs significantly better than existing approaches on both synthetic and real world data.
Orbit Regularization,We propose a general framework for regularization based on group majorization. In this framework, a group is defined to act on the parameter space and an orbit is fixed; to control complexity, the model parameters are confined to lie in the convex hull of this orbit (the orbitope). Common regularizers are recovered as particular cases, and a connection is revealed between the recent sorted 1 -norm and the hyperoctahedral group. We derive the properties a group must satisfy for being amenable to optimization with conditional and projected gradient algorithms. Finally, we suggest a continuation strategy for orbit exploration, presenting simulation results for the symmetric and hyperoctahedral groups.
Provable Submodular Minimization using Wolfe's Algorithm,Owing to several applications in large scale learning and vision problems, fast submodular function minimization (SFM) has become a critical problem. Theoretically, unconstrained SFM can be performed in polynomial time (Iwata and Orlin 2009), however these algorithms are not practical. In 1976, Wolfe proposed an algorithm to find the minimum Euclidean norm point in a polytope, and in 1980, Fujishige showed how Wolfe's algorithm can be used for SFM. For general submodular functions, the Fujishige-Wolfe minimum norm algorithm seems to have the best empirical performance. Despite its good practical performance, theoretically very little is known about Wolfe's minimum norm algorithm -- to our knowledge the only result is an exponential time analysis due to Wolfe himself. In this paper we give a maiden convergence analysis of Wolfe's algorithm. We prove that in t iterations, Wolfe's algorithm returns a O(1/t)-approximate solution to the min-norm point. We also prove a robust version of Fujishige's theorem which shows that an O(1/n^2)-approximate solution to the min-norm point problem implies exact submodular minimization. As a corollary, we get the first pseudo-polynomial time guarantee for the Fujishige-Wolfe minimum norm algorithm for submodular function minimization. In particular, we show that the min-norm point algorithm solves SFM in O(n^7F^2)-time, where $F$ is an upper bound on the maximum change a single element can cause in the function value.
Learning Generative Models with Visual Attention,Attention has long been proposed by psychologists to be important for efficiently dealing with the massive amounts of sensory stimulus in the neocortex. Inspired by the attention models in visual neuroscience and the need for object-centered data for generative models, we propose a deep-learning based generative framework using attention. The attentional mechanism propagates signals from the region of interest in a scene to an aligned canonical representation for generative modeling. By ignoring scene background clutter, the generative model can concentrate its resources on the object of interest. A convolutional neural net is employed to provide good initializations during posterior inference which uses Hamiltonian Monte Carlo. Upon learning images of faces, our model can robustly attend to the face region of novel test subjects. More importantly, our model can learn generative models of new faces from a novel dataset of large images where the face locations are not known.
Convolutional Kernel Networks,An important goal in visual recognition is to devise image representations that are invariant to particular transformations. In this paper, we address this goal with a new type of convolutional neural network (CNN) whose invariance is encoded by a reproducing kernel. Unlike traditional approaches where neural networks are learned either to represent data or for solving a classification task, our network learns to approximate the kernel feature map on training data. Such an approach enjoys several benefits over classical ones. First, by teaching CNNs to be invariant, we obtain simple network architectures that achieve a similar accuracy to more complex ones, while being easy to train and robust to overfitting. Second, we bridge a gap between the neural network literature and kernels, which are natural tools to model invariance. We evaluate our methodology on visual recognition tasks where CNNs have proven to perform well, e.g., digit recognition with the MNIST dataset, and the more challenging CIFAR-10 and STL-10 datasets, where our accuracy is competitive with the state of the art.
PEWA: Patch-based Exponentially Weighted Aggregation for image denoising,Patch-based methods have been widely used for noise reduction in recent years. In this paper, we propose a general statistical aggregation method which combines image patches denoised with several commonly-used algorithms. We show that weakly denoised versions of the input image obtained with standard methods, can serve to compute an efficient patch-based aggregated estimd aggregation (EWA) estimator. The resulting approach (PEWA) is based on a MCMC sampling and has a nice statistical foundation while producing denoising results that are comparable to the current state-of-the-art. We demonstrate the performance of the denoising algorithm on real images and we compare the results to several competitive methods.
Learning Mixtures of Submodular Functions for Image Collection Summarization,We address the problem of image collection summarization by learning mixtures of submodular functions. We argue that submodularity is very natural to this problem, and we show that a number of previously used scoring functions are submodular  a property not explicitly mentioned in these publications. We provide classes of submodular functions capturing the necessary properties of summaries, namely coverage, likelihood, and diversity. To learn mixtures of these submodular functions as scoring functions, we formulate summarization as a supervised learning problem using large-margin structured prediction. Furthermore, we introduce a novel evaluation metric, which we call V-ROUGE, for automatic summary scoring. While a similar metric called ROUGE has been successfully applied to document summarization [14], no such metric was known for quantifying the quality of image collection summaries. We provide a new dataset consisting of 14 real-world image collections along with many human-generated ground truth summaries collected using mechanical turk. We also extensively compare our method with previously explored methods for this problem and show that our learning approach outperforms all competitors on this new dataset. This paper provides, to our knowledge, the first systematic approach for quantifying the problem of image collection summarization, along with a new dataset of image collections and human summaries.
Learning to Discover Efficient Mathematical Identities,In this paper we explore how machine learning techniques can be applied to the discovery of efficient mathematical identities. We introduce an attribute grammar framework for representing symbolic expressions. Given a grammar of math operators, we build trees that combine them in different ways, looking for compositions that are analytically equivalent to a target expression but of lower computational complexity. However, as the space of trees grows exponentially with the complexity of the target expression, brute force search is impractical for all but the simplest of expressions. Consequently, we introduce two novel learning approaches that are able to learn from simpler expressions to guide the tree search. The first of these is a simple n-gram model, the other being a recursive neural-network. We show how these approaches enable us to derive complex identities, beyond reach of brute-force search, or human derivation.
Automated Variational Inference for Gaussian Process Models,We develop an automated variational method for approximate inference in Gaussian process (GP) models whose posteriors are often intractable. Using a mixture of Gaussians as the variational distribution, we show that (i) the variational objective and its gradients can be approximated efficiently via sampling from univariate Gaussian distributions and (ii) the gradients of the GP hyperparameters can be obtained analytically regardless of the model likelihood. We further propose two instances of the variational distribution whose covariance matrices can be parametrized linearly in the number of observations. These results allow gradient-based optimization to be done efficiently in a black-box manner. Our approach is thoroughly verified on 5 models using 6 benchmark datasets, performing as well as the exact or hard-coded implementations while running orders of magnitude faster than the alternative MCMC sampling approaches. Our method can be a valuable tool for practitioners and researchers to investigate new models with minimal effort in deriving model-specific inference algorithms.
LSDA: Large Scale Detection through Adaptation,A major challenge in scaling object detection is the difficulty of obtaining labeled images for large numbers of categories. Recently, deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have emerged as clear winners on object classification benchmarks, in part due to training with 1.2M+ labeled classification images. Unfortunately, only a small fraction of those labels are available for the detection task. It is much cheaper and easier to collect large quantities of image-level labels from search engines than it is to collect detection data and label it with precise bounding boxes. In this paper, we propose Large Scale Detection through Adaptation (LSDA), an algorithm which learns the difference between the two tasks and transfers this knowledge to classifiers for categories without bounding box annotated data, turning them into detectors. Our method has the potential to enable detection for the tens of thousands of categories that lack bounding box annotations, yet have plenty of classification data. Evaluation on the ImageNet LSVRC-2013 detection challenge demonstrates the efficacy of our approach. This algorithm enables us to produce a >7.6K detector by using available classification data from leaf nodes in the ImageNet tree. We additionally demonstrate how to modify our architecture to produce a fast detector (running at 2fps for the 7.6K detector). Models and software are available at
Fast Training of Pose Detectors in the Fourier Domain,In many datasets, the samples are related by a known image transformation, such as rotation, or a repeatable non-rigid deformation. This applies to both datasets with the same objects under different viewpoints, and datasets augmented with virtual samples. Such datasets possess a high degree of redundancy, because geometrically-induced transformations should preserve intrinsic properties of the objects. Likewise, ensembles of classifiers used for pose estimation should also share many characteristics, since they are related by a geometric transformation. By assuming that this transformation is norm-preserving and cyclic, we propose a closed-form solution in the Fourier domain that can eliminate most redundancies. It can leverage off-the-shelf solvers with no modification (e.g. libsvm), and train several pose classifiers simultaneously at no extra cost. Our experiments show that training a sliding-window object detector and pose estimator can be sped up by orders of magnitude, for transformations as diverse as planar rotation, the walking motion of pedestrians, and out-of-plane rotations of cars.
Online combinatorial optimization with stochastic decision sets and adversarial losses,Most work on sequential learning assumes a fixed set of actions that are available all the time. However, in practice, actions can consist of picking subsets of readings from sensors that may break from time to time, road segments that can be blocked or goods that are out of stock. In this paper we study learning algorithms that are able to deal with stochastic availability of such unreliable composite actions. We propose and analyze algorithms based on the Follow-The-Perturbed-Leader prediction method for several learning settings differing in the feedback provided to the learner. Our algorithms rely on a novel loss estimation technique that we call Counting Asleep Times. We deliver regret bounds for our algorithms for the previously studied full information and (semi-)bandit settings, as well as a natural middle point between the two that we call the restricted information setting. A special consequence of our results is a significant improvement of the best known performance guarantees achieved by an efficient algorithm for the sleeping bandit problem with stochastic availability. Finally, we evaluate our algorithms empirically and show their improvement over the known approaches.
Fast and Robust Least Squares Estimation in Corrupted Linear Models,Subsampling methods have been recently proposed to speed up least squares estimation in large scale settings. However, these algorithms are typically not robust to outliers or corruptions in the observed covariates. The concept of influence that was developed for regression diagnostics can be used to detect such corrupted observations as shown in this paper. This property of influence -- for which we also develop a randomized approximation -- motivates our proposed subsampling algorithm for large scale corrupted linear regression which limits the influence of data points since highly influential points contribute most to the residual error. Under a general model of corrupted observations, we show theoretically and empirically on a variety of simulated and real datasets that our algorithm improves over the current state-of-the-art approximation schemes for ordinary least squares.
Optimal Regret Minimization in Posted-Price Auctions with Strategic Buyers,We study revenue optimization learning algorithms for posted-price auctions with strategic buyers. We analyze a very broad family of monotone regret minimization algorithms for this problem, which includes the previous best known algorithm, and show that no algorithm in that family admits a strategic regret more favorable than $\Omega(\sqrt{T})$. We then introduce a new algorithm that achieves a strategic regret differing from the lower bound only by a factor in $O(\log T)$, an exponential improvement upon the previous best algorithm. Our new algorithm admits a natural analysis and simpler proofs, and the ideas behind its design are general. We also report the results of empirical evaluations comparing our algorithm with the previous best algorithm and show a consistent exponential improvement in several different scenarios.
A Drifting-Games Analysis for Online Learning and Applications to Boosting,We provide a general mechanism to design online learning algorithms based on a minimax analysis within a drifting-games framework. Different online learning settings (Hedge, multi-armed bandit problems and online convex optimization) are studied by converting into various kinds of drifting games. The original minimax analysis for drifting games is then used and generalized by applying a series of relaxations, starting from choosing a convex surrogate of the 0-1 loss function. With different choices of surrogates, we not only recover existing algorithms, but also propose new algorithms that are totally parameter-free and enjoy other useful properties. Moreover, our drifting-games framework naturally allows us to study high probability bounds without resorting to any concentration results, and also a generalized notion of regret that measures how good the algorithm is compared to all but the top small fraction of candidates. Finally, we translate our new Hedge algorithm into a new adaptive boosting algorithm that is computationally faster as shown in experiments, since it ignores a large number of examples on each round.
Bayesian Nonlinear Support Vector Machines and Discriminative Factor Modeling,A new Bayesian formulation is developed for nonlinear support vector machines (SVMs), based on a Gaussian process and with the SVM hinge loss expressed as a scaled mixture of normals. We then integrate the Bayesian SVM into a factor model, in which feature learning and nonlinear classifier design are performed jointly; almost all previous work on such discriminative feature learning has assumed a linear classifier. Inference is performed with expectation conditional maximization (ECM) and Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). An extensive set of experiments demonstrate the utility of using a nonlinear Bayesian SVM within discriminative feature learning and factor modeling, from the standpoints of accuracy and interpretability
Bounded Regret for Finite-Armed Structured Bandits,We study a new type of K-armed bandit problem where the expected return of one arm may depend on the returns of other arms. We present a new algorithm for this general class of problems and show that under certain circumstances it is possible to achieve finite expected cumulative regret. We also give problem-dependent lower bounds on the cumulative regret showing that at least in special cases the new algorithm is nearly optimal.
Deconvolution of High Dimensional Mixtures via Boosting, with Application to Diffusion-Weighted MRI of Human Brain,Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) and fiber tractography are the only methods to measure the structure of the white matter in the living human brain. The diffusion signal has been modelled as the combined contribution from many individual fascicles of nerve fibers passing through each location in the white matter. Typically, this is done via basis pursuit, but estimation of the exact directions is limited due to discretization. The difficulties inherent in modeling DWI data are shared by many other problems involving fitting non-parametric mixture models. Ekanadaham et al. proposed an approach, continuous basis pursuit, to overcome discretization error in the 1-dimensional case (e.g., spike-sorting). Here, we propose a more general algorithm that fits mixture models of any dimensionality without discretization. Our algorithm uses the principles of L2-boost, together with refitting of the weights and pruning of the parameters. The addition of these steps to L2-boost both accelerates the algorithm and assures its accuracy. We refer to the resulting algorithm as elastic basis pursuit, or EBP, since it expands and contracts the active set of kernels as needed. We show that in contrast to existing approaches to fitting mixtures, our boosting framework (1) enables the selection of the optimal bias-variance tradeoff along the solution path, and (2) scales with high-dimensional problems. In simulations of DWI, we find that EBP yields better parameter estimates than a non-negative least squares (NNLS) approach, or the standard model used in DWI, the tensor model, which serves as the basis for diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). We demonstrate the utility of the method in DWI data acquired in parts of the brain containing crossings of multiple fascicles of nerve fibers.
Difference of Convex Functions Programming for Reinforcement Learning,Large Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) are usually solved using Approximate Dynamic Programming (ADP) methods such as Approximate Value Iteration (AVI) or Approximate Policy Iteration (API). The main contribution of this paper is to show that, alternatively, the optimal state-action value function can be estimated using Difference of Convex functions (DC) Programming. To do so, we study the minimization of a norm of the Optimal Bellman Residual (OBR) $T^*Q-Q$, where $T^*$ is the so-called optimal Bellman operator. Controlling this residual allows controlling the distance to the optimal action-value function, and we show that minimizing an empirical norm of the OBR is consistant in the Vapnik sense. Finally, we frame this optimization problem as a DC program. That allows envisioning using the large related literature on DC Programming to address the Reinforcement Leaning (RL) problem.
Consistent Binary Classification with Generalized Performance Metrics,Performance metrics for binary classification are designed to capture tradeoffs between four fundamental population quantities: true positives, false positives, true negatives and false negatives. Despite significant interest from theoretical and applied communities, little is known about either optimal classifiers or consistent algorithms for optimizing binary classification performance metrics beyond a few special cases. We consider a fairly large family of performance metrics given by ratios of linear combinations of the four fundamental population quantities. This family includes many well known binary classification metrics such as classification accuracy, AM measure, F-measure and the Jaccard similarity coefficient as special cases. Our analysis identifies the optimal classifiers as the sign of the thresholded conditional probability of the positive class, with a performance metric-dependent threshold. The optimal threshold can be constructed using simple plug-in estimators when the performance metric is a linear combination of the population quantities, but alternative techniques are required for the general case. We propose two algorithms for estimating the optimal classifiers, and prove their statistical consistency. Both algorithms are straightforward modifications of standard approaches to address the key challenge of optimal threshold selection, thus are simple to implement in practice. The first algorithm combines a plug-in estimate of the conditional probability of the positive class with optimal threshold selection. The second algorithm leverages recent work on calibrated asymmetric surrogate losses to construct candidate classifiers. We present empirical comparisons between these algorithms on benchmark datasets.
Estimation with Norm Regularization,Analysis of estimation error and associated structured statistical recovery based on norm regularized regression, e.g., Lasso, needs to consider four aspects: the norm, the loss function, the design matrix, and the noise vector. This paper presents generalizations of such estimation error analysis on all four aspects, compared to the existing literature. We characterize the restricted error set, establish relations between error sets for the constrained and regularized problems, and present an estimation error bound applicable to {\em any} norm. Precise characterizations of the bound are presented for a variety of noise vectors, design matrices, including sub-Gaussian, anisotropic, and dependent samples, and loss functions, including least squares and generalized linear models. Gaussian widths, as a measure of size of suitable sets, and associated tools play a key role in our generalized analysis.
Efficient learning by implicit exploration in bandit problems with side observations,We consider online learning problems under a a partial observability model capturing situations where the information conveyed to the learner is between full information and bandit feedback. In the simplest variant, we assume that in addition to its own loss, the learner also gets to observe losses of some other actions. The revealed losses depend on the learner's action and a directed observation system chosen by the environment. For this setting, we propose the first algorithm that enjoys near-optimal regret guarantees without having to know the observation system before selecting its actions. Along similar lines, we also define a new partial information setting that models online combinatorial optimization problems where the feedback received by the learner is between semi-bandit and full feedback. As the predictions of our first algorithm cannot be always computed efficiently in this setting, we propose another algorithm with similar properties and with the benefit of always being computationally efficient, at the price of a slightly more complicated tuning mechanism. Both algorithms rely on a novel exploration strategy called implicit exploration, which is shown to be more efficient both computationally and information-theoretically than previously studied exploration strategies for the problem.
Spectral Clustering of graphs with the Bethe Hessian,Spectral clustering is a standard approach to label nodes on a graph by studying the (largest or lowest) eigenvalues of a symmetric real matrix such as e.g. the adjacency or the Laplacian. Recently, it has been argued that using instead a more complicated, non-symmetric and higher dimensional operator, related to the non-backtracking walk on the graph, leads to improved performance in detecting clusters, and even to optimal performance for the stochastic block model. Here, we propose to use instead a simpler object, a symmetric real matrix known as the Bethe Hessian operator, or deformed Laplacian. We show that this approach combines the performances of the non-backtracking operator, thus detecting clusters all the way down to the theoretical limit in the stochastic block model, with the computational, theoretical and memory advantages of real symmetric matrices.
An Integer Polynomial Programming Based Framework for Lifted MAP Inference,In this paper, we present a new approach for lifted MAP inference in Markov logic networks (MLNs). The key idea in our approach is to compactly encode the MAP inference problem as an Integer Polynomial Program (IPP) by schematically applying three lifted inference steps to the MLN: lifted decomposition, lifted conditioning, and partial grounding. Our IPP encoding is lifted in the sense that an integer assignment to a variable in the IPP may represent a truth-assignment to multiple indistinguishable ground atoms in the MLN. We show how to solve the IPP by first converting it to an Integer Linear Program (ILP) and then solving the latter using state-of-the-art ILP techniques. Experiments on several benchmark MLNs show that our new algorithm is substantially superior to ground inference and existing methods in terms of computational efficiency and solution quality.
Sampling for Inference in Probabilistic Models with Fast Bayesian Quadrature,We propose a novel sampling framework for inference in probabilistic models: an active learning approach that converges more quickly (in wall-clock time) than Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) benchmarks. The central challenge in probabilistic inference is numerical integration, to average over ensembles of models or unknown (hyper-)parameters (for example to compute marginal likelihood or a partition function). MCMC has provided approaches to numerical integration that deliver state-of-the-art inference, but can suffer from sample inefficiency and poor convergence diagnostics. Bayesian quadrature techniques offer a model-based solution to such problems, but their uptake has been hindered by prohibitive computation costs. We introduce a warped model for probabilistic integrands (likelihoods) that are known to be non-negative, permitting a cheap active learning scheme to optimally select sample locations. Our algorithm is demonstrated to offer faster convergence (in seconds) relative to simple Monte Carlo and annealed importance sampling on both synthetic and real-world examples.
Extended and Unscented Gaussian Processes,We present two new methods for inference in Gaussian process (GP) models with general nonlinear likelihoods. Inference is based on a variational framework where a Gaussian posterior is assumed and the likelihood is linearized about the variational posterior mean using either a Taylor series expansion or statistical linearization. We show that the parameter updates obtained by these algorithms are equivalent to the state update equations in the iterative extended and unscented Kalman filters respectively, hence we refer to our algorithms as extended and unscented GPs. The unscented GP treats the likelihood as a 'black-box' by not requiring its derivative for inference, so it also applies to non-differentiable likelihood models. We evaluate the performance of our algorithms on a number of synthetic inversion problems and a binary classification dataset.
Sparse Polynomial Learning and Graph Sketching,Let $f: \{-1,1\}^n \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ be a polynomial with at most $s$ non-zero real coefficients. We give an algorithm for exactly reconstructing $f$ given random examples from the uniform distribution on $\{-1,1\}^n$ that runs in time polynomial in $n$ and $2^{s}$ and succeeds if the function satisfies the \textit{unique sign property}: there is one output value which corresponds to a unique set of values of the participating parities. This sufficient condition is satisfied when every coefficient of $f$ is perturbed by a small random noise, or satisfied with high probability when $s$ parity functions are chosen randomly or when all the coefficients are positive. Learning sparse polynomials over the Boolean domain in time polynomial in $n$ and $2^{s}$ is considered notoriously hard in the worst-case. Our result shows that the problem is tractable for almost all sparse polynomials. Then, we show an application of this result to hypergraph sketching which is the problem of learning a sparse (both in the number of hyperedges and the size of the hyperedges) hypergraph from uniformly drawn random cuts. We also provide experimental results on a real world dataset.
Learning with Pseudo-Ensembles,We formalize the notion of a pseudo-ensemble, a (possibly infinite) collection of child models spawned from a parent model by perturbing it according to some noise process. E.g., dropout (Hinton et al, 2012) in a deep neural network trains a pseudo-ensemble of child subnetworks generated by randomly masking nodes in the parent network. We examine the relationship of pseudo-ensembles, which involve perturbation in model-space, to standard ensemble methods and existing notions of robustness, which focus on perturbation in observation-space. We present a novel regularizer based on making the behavior of a pseudo-ensemble robust with respect to the noise process generating it. In the fully-supervised setting, our regularizer matches the performance of dropout. But, unlike dropout, our regularizer naturally extends to the semi-supervised setting, where it produces state-of-the-art results. We provide a case study in which we transform the Recursive Neural Tensor Network of (Socher et al, 2013) into a pseudo-ensemble, which significantly improves its performance on a real-world sentiment analysis benchmark.
Neural Word Embedding as Implicit Matrix Factorization,We analyze skip-gram with negative-sampling (SGNS), a word embedding method introduced by Mikolov et al., and show that it is implicitly factorizing a word-context matrix, whose cells are the pointwise mutual information (PMI) of the respective word and context pairs, shifted by a global constant. We find that another embedding method, NCE, is implicitly factorizing a similar matrix, where each cell is the (shifted) log conditional probability of a word given its context. We show that using a sparse Shifted Positive PMI word-context matrix to represent words improves results on two word similarity tasks and one of two analogy tasks. When dense low-dimensional vectors are preferred, exact factorization with SVD can achieve solutions that are at least as good as SGNS's solutions for word similarity tasks. On analogy questions SGNS remains superior to SVD. We conjecture that this stems from the weighted nature of SGNS's factorization.
Low-Rank Time-Frequency Synthesis,Many single-channel signal decomposition techniques rely on a low-rank factorization of a time-frequency transform. In particular, nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) of the spectrogram -- the (power) magnitude of the short-time Fourier transform (STFT) -- has been considered in many audio applications. In this setting, NMF with the Itakura-Saito divergence was shown to underly a generative Gaussian composite model (GCM) of the STFT, a step forward from more empirical approaches based on ad-hoc transform and divergence specifications. Still, the GCM is not yet a generative model of the raw signal itself, but only of its STFT. The work presented in this paper fills in this ultimate gap by proposing a novel signal synthesis model with low-rank time-frequency structure. In particular, our new approach opens doors to multi-resolution representations, that were not possible in the traditional NMF setting. We describe two expectation-maximization algorithms for estimation in the new model and report audio signal processing results with music decomposition and speech enhancement.
Fast Prediction for Large-Scale Kernel Machines,Kernel machines such as kernel SVM and kernel ridge regression usually construct high quality models; however, their use in real-world applications remains limited due to the high prediction cost. In this paper, we present two novel insights for improving the prediction efficiency of kernel machines. First, we show that by adding pseudo landmark points to the classical Nystrom kernel approximation in an elegant way, we can significantly reduce the prediction error without much additional prediction cost. Second, we provide a new theoretical analysis on bounding the error of the solution computed by using Nystrom kernel approximation method, and show that the error is related to the weighted kmeans objective function where the weights are given by the model computed from the original kernel. This theoretical insight suggests a new landmark point selection technique for the situation where we have knowledge of the original model. Based on these two insights, we provide a divide-and-conquer framework for improving the prediction speed. First, we divide the whole problem into smaller local subproblems to reduce the problem size. In the second phase, we develop a kernel approximation based fast prediction approach within each subproblem. We apply our algorithm to real world large-scale classification and regression datasets, and show that the proposed algorithm is consistently and significantly better than other competitors. For example, on the Covertype classification problem, in terms of prediction time, our algorithm achieves more than 10000 times speedup over the full kernel SVM, and a two-fold speedup over the state-of-the-art LDKL approach, while obtaining much higher prediction accuracy than LDKL (95.2% vs. 89.53%).
Generalized Higher-Order Orthogonal Iteration for Tensor Decomposition and Completion,Low-rank tensor estimation has been frequently applied in many real-world problems. Despite successful applications, existing Schatten 1-norm minimization (SNM) methods may become very slow or even not applicable for large-scale problems. To address this difficulty, we therefore propose an efficient and scalable core tensor Schatten 1-norm minimization method for simultaneous tensor decomposition and completion, with a much lower computational complexity. We first induce the equivalence relation of Schatten 1-norm of a low-rank tensor and its core tensor. Then the Schatten 1-norm of the core tensor is used to replace that of the whole tensor, which leads to a much smaller-scale matrix SNM problem. Finally, an efficient algorithm with a rank-increasing scheme is developed to solve the proposed problem with a convergence guarantee. Extensive experimental results show that our method is usually more accurate than the state-of-the-art methods, and is orders of magnitude faster.
Reducing the Rank in Relational Factorization Models by Including Observable Patterns,Tensor factorizations have become popular methods for learning from multi-relational data. In this context, the rank of a factorization is an important parameter that determines runtime as well as generalization ability. To determine conditions under which factorization is an efficient approach for learning from relational data, we derive upper and lower bounds on the rank required to recover adjacency tensors. Based on our findings, we propose a novel additive tensor factorization model for learning from latent and observable patterns in multi-relational data and present a scalable algorithm for computing the factorization. Experimentally, we show that the proposed approach does not only improve the predictive performance over pure latent variable methods but that it also reduces the required rank --- and therefore runtime and memory complexity --- significantly.
Large-Margin Convex Polytope Machine,We present the Convex Polytope Machine (CPM), a novel non-linear learning algorithm for large-scale binary classification tasks. The CPM finds a large margin convex polytope separator which encloses one class. We develop a stochastic gradient descent based algorithm that is amenable to massive datasets, and augment it with a heuristic procedure to avoid sub-optimal local minima. Our experimental evaluations of the CPM on large-scale datasets from distinct domains (MNIST handwritten digit recognition, text topic, and web security) demonstrate that the CPM trains models faster, sometimes several orders of magnitude, than state-of-the-art similar approaches and kernel-SVM methods while achieving comparable or better classification performance. Our empirical results suggest that, unlike prior similar approaches, we do not need to control the number of sub-classifiers (sides of the polytope) to avoid overfitting.
Non-convex Robust PCA,We propose a new provable method for robust PCA, where the task is to recover a low-rank matrix, which is corrupted with sparse perturbations. Our method consists of simple alternating projections onto the set of low rank and sparse matrices with intermediate de-noising steps. We prove correct recovery of the low rank and sparse components under tight recovery conditions, which match those for the state-of-art convex relaxation techniques. Our method is extremely simple to implement and has low computational complexity. For a $m \times n$ input matrix (say m \geq n), our method has O(r^2 mn\log(1/\epsilon)) running time, where $r$ is the rank of the low-rank component and $\epsilon$ is the accuracy. In contrast, the convex relaxation methods have a running time O(mn^2/\epsilon), which is not scalable to large problem instances. Our running time nearly matches that of the usual PCA (i.e. non robust), which is O(rmn\log (1/\epsilon)). Thus, we achieve ``best of both the worlds'', viz low computational complexity and provable recovery for robust PCA. Our analysis represents one of the few instances of global convergence guarantees for non-convex methods.
Provable Tensor Factorization with Missing Data,We study the problem of low-rank tensor factorization in the presence of missing data. We ask the following question: how many sampled entries do we need, to efficiently and exactly reconstruct a tensor with a low-rank orthogonal decomposition? We propose a novel alternating minimization based method which iteratively refines estimates of the singular vectors. We show that under certain standard assumptions, our method can recover a three-mode $n\times n\times n$ dimensional rank-$r$ tensor exactly from $O(n^{3/2} r^5 \log^4 n)$ randomly sampled entries. In the process of proving this result, we solve two challenging sub-problems for tensors with missing data. First, in analyzing the initialization step, we prove a generalization of a celebrated result by Szemer\'edie et al. on the spectrum of random graphs. Next, we prove global convergence of alternating minimization with a good initialization. Simulations suggest that the dependence of the sample size on dimensionality $n$ is indeed tight.
Probabilistic ODE Solvers with Runge-Kutta Means,Runge-Kutta methods are the classic family of solvers for ordinary differential equations (ODEs), and the basis for the state of the art. Like most numerical methods, they return point estimates. We construct a family of probabilistic numerical methods that instead return a Gauss-Markov process defining a probability distribution over the ODE solution. In contrast to prior work, we construct this family such that posterior means match the outputs of the Runge-Kutta family exactly, thus inheriting their proven good properties. Remaining degrees of freedom not identified by the match to Runge-Kutta are chosen such that the posterior probability measure fits the observed structure of the ODE. Our results shed light on the structure of Runge-Kutta solvers from a new direction, provide a richer, probabilistic output, have low computational cost, and raise new research questions.
Testing Unfaithful Gaussian Graphical Models,The global Markov property for Gaussian graphical models ensures graph separation implies conditional independence. Specifically if a node set $S$ graph separates nodes $u$ and $v$ then $X_u$ is conditionally independent of $X_v$ given $X_S$. The opposite direction need not be true, that is, $X_u \perp X_v \mid X_S$ need not imply $S$ is a node separator of $u$ and $v$. When it does, the relation $X_u \perp X_v \mid X_S$ is called faithful. In this paper we provide a characterization of faithful relations and then provide an algorithm to test faithfulness based only on knowledge of other conditional relations of the form $X_i \perp X_j \mid X_S$.
Analysis of Learning from Positive and Unlabeled Data,Learning a classifier from positive and unlabeled data is an important class of classification problems that are conceivable in many practical applications. In this paper, we first show that this problem can be solved by cost-sensitive learning between positive and unlabeled data. We then show that convex surrogate loss functions such as the hinge loss may lead to a wrong classification boundary due to an intrinsic bias, but the problem can be avoided by using non-convex loss functions such as the ramp loss. We next analyze the excess risk when the class prior is estimated from data, and show that the classification accuracy is not sensitive to class prior estimation if the unlabeled data is dominated by the positive data (this is naturally satisfied in inlier-based outlier detection because inliers are dominant in the unlabeled dataset). Finally, we provide generalization error bounds and show that, for an equal number of labeled and unlabeled samples, the generalization error of learning only from positive and unlabeled samples is no worse than $2\sqrt{2}$ times the fully supervised case. These theoretical findings are also validated through experiments.
Identifying and attacking the saddle point problem in high-dimensional non-convex optimization,A central challenge to many fields of science and engineering involves minimizing non-convex error functions over continuous, high dimensional spaces. Gradient descent or quasi-Newton methods are almost ubiquitously used to perform such minimizations, and it is often thought that a main source of difficulty for these local methods to find the global minimum is the proliferation of local minima with much higher error than the global minimum. Here we argue, based on results from statistical physics, random matrix theory, neural network theory, and empirical evidence, that a deeper and more profound difficulty originates from the proliferation of saddle points, not local minima, especially in high dimensional problems of practical interest. Such saddle points are surrounded by high error plateaus that can dramatically slow down learning, and give the illusory impression of the existence of a local minimum. Motivated by these arguments, we propose a new approach to second-order optimization, the saddle-free Newton method, that can rapidly escape high dimensional saddle points, unlike gradient descent and quasi-Newton methods. We apply this algorithm to deep or recurrent neural network training, and provide numerical evidence for its superior optimization performance.
The Blinded Bandit: Learning with Adaptive Feedback,We study an online learning setting where the player is temporarily deprived of feedback each time it switches to a different action. Such model of \emph{adaptive feedback} naturally occurs in scenarios where the environment reacts to the player's actions and requires some time to recover and stabilize after the algorithm switches actions. This motivates a variant of the multi-armed bandit problem, which we call the \emph{blinded multi-armed bandit}, in which no feedback is given to the algorithm whenever it switches arms. We develop efficient online learning algorithms for this problem and prove that they guarantee the same asymptotic regret as the optimal algorithms for the standard multi-armed bandit problem. This result stands in stark contrast to another recent result, which states that adding a switching cost to the standard multi-armed bandit makes it substantially harder to learn, and provides a direct comparison of how feedback and loss contribute to the difficulty of an online learning problem. We also extend our results to the general prediction framework of bandit linear optimization, again attaining near-optimal regret bounds.
A Wild Bootstrap for Degenerate Kernel Tests,A wild bootstrap method for nonparametric hypothesis tests based on kernel distribution embeddings is proposed. This bootstrap method is used to construct provably consistent tests that apply to random processes, for which the naive permutation-based bootstrap fails. It applies to a large group of kernel tests based on V-statistics, which are degenerate under the null hypothesis, and non-degenerate elsewhere. To illustrate this approach, we construct a two-sample test, an instantaneous independence test and a multiple lag independence test for time series. In experiments, the wild bootstrap gives strong performance on synthetic examples, on audio data, and in performance benchmarking for the Gibbs sampler. The code is available at https://github.com/kacperChwialkowski/wildBootstrap.
Near-optimal Reinforcement Learning in Factored MDPs,Any reinforcement learning algorithm that applies to all Markov decision processes (MDPs) will suffer $\Omega(\sqrt{SAT})$ regret on some MDP, where $T$ is the elapsed time and $S$ and $A$ are the cardinalities of the state and action spaces. This implies $T = \Omega(SA)$ time to guarantee a near-optimal policy. In many settings of practical interest, due to the curse of dimensionality, $S$ and $A$ can be so enormous that this learning time is unacceptable. We establish that, if the system is known to be a \emph{factored} MDP, it is possible to achieve regret that scales polynomially in the number of \emph{parameters} encoding the factored MDP, which may be exponentially smaller than $S$ or $A$. We provide two algorithms that satisfy near-optimal regret bounds in this context: posterior sampling reinforcement learning (PSRL) and an upper confidence bound algorithm (UCRL-Factored).
Parallel Double Greedy Submodular Maximization,Many machine learning problems can be reduced to the maximization of submodular functions. Although well understood in the serial setting, the parallel maximization of submodular functions remains an open area of research with recent results only addressing monotone functions. The optimal algorithm for maximizing the more general class of non-monotone submodular functions was introduced by Buchbinder et al. and follows a strongly serial double-greedy logic and program analysis. In this work, we propose two methods to parallelize the double-greedy algorithm. The first, coordination-free approach emphasizes speed at the cost of a weaker approximation guarantee. The second, concurrency control approach guarantees a tight 1/2-approximation, at the quantifiable cost of additional coordination and reduced parallelism. As a consequence we explore the trade off space between guaranteed performance and objective optimality. We implement and evaluate both algorithms on multi-core hardware and billion edge graphs, demonstrating both the scalability and tradeoffs of each approach.
A Probabilistic Framework for Multimodal Retrieval using Integrative Indian Buffet Process,We propose a multimodal retrieval procedure based on latent feature models. The procedure consists of a nonparametric Bayesian framework for learning underlying semantically meaningful abstract features in a multimodal dataset, a probabilistic retrieval model that allows cross-modal queries and an extension model for relevance feedback. Experiments on two multimodal datasets, PASCAL-Sentence and SUN-Attribute, demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed retrieval procedure in comparison to the state-of-the-art algorithms for learning binary codes.
Low Rank Approximation Lower Bounds in Row-Update Streams,We study low-rank approximation in the streaming model in which the rows of an $n \times d$ matrix $A$ are presented one at a time in an arbitrary order. At the end of the stream, the streaming algorithm should output a $k \times d$ matrix $R$ so that $\|A-AR^{\dagger}R\|_F^2 \leq (1+\eps)\|A-A_k\|_F^2$, where $A_k$ is the best rank-$k$ approximation to $A$. A deterministic streaming algorithm of Liberty (KDD, 2013), with an improved analysis of Ghashami and Phillips (SODA, 2014), provides such a streaming algorithm using $O(dk/\epsilon)$ words of space. A natural question is if smaller space is possible. We give an almost matching lower bound of $\Omega(dk/\epsilon)$ bits of space, even for randomized algorithms which succeed only with constant probability. Our lower bound matches the upper bound of Ghashami and Phillips up to the word size, improving on a simple $\Omega(dk)$ space lower bound.
Log-Hilbert-Schmidt metric between positive definite operators on Hilbert spaces,This paper introduces a novel mathematical and computational framework, namely {\it Log-Hilbert-Schmidt metric} between positive definite operators on a Hilbert space. This is a generalization of the Log-Euclidean metric on the Riemannian manifold of positive definite matrices to the infinite-dimensional setting. The general framework is applied in particular to compute distances between covariance operators on a Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space (RKHS), for which we obtain explicit formulas via the corresponding Gram matrices. Empirically, we apply our formulation to the task of multi-category image classification, where each image is represented by an infinite-dimensional RKHS covariance operator. On several challenging datasets, our method significantly outperforms approaches based on covariance matrices computed directly on the original input features, including those using the Log-Euclidean metric, Stein and Jeffreys divergences, achieving new state of the art results.
Asynchronous Anytime Sequential Monte Carlo,We introduce a new sequential Monte Carlo algorithm we call the particle cascade. The particle cascade is an asynchronous, anytime alternative to traditional sequential Monte Carlo algorithms that is amenable to parallel and distributed implementations. It uses no barrier synchronizations which leads to improved particle throughput and memory efficiency. It is an anytime algorithm in the sense that it can be run forever to emit an unbounded number of particles while keeping within a fixed memory budget. We prove that the particle cascade provides an unbiased marginal likelihood estimator which can be straightforwardly plugged into existing pseudo-marginal methods.
Exploiting easy data in online optimization,We consider the problem of online optimization, where a learner chooses a decision from a given decision set and suffers some loss associated with the decision and the state of the environment. The learner's objective is to minimize its cumulative regret against the best fixed decision in hindsight. Over the past few decades numerous variants have been considered, with many algorithms designed to achieve sub-linear regret in the worst case. However, this level of robustness comes at a cost. Proposed algorithms are often over-conservative, failing to adapt to the actual complexity of the loss sequence which is often far from the worst case. In this paper we introduce a general algorithm that, provided with a safe learning algorithm and an opportunistic benchmark, can effectively combine good worst-case guarantees with much improved performance on easy data. We derive general theoretical bounds on the regret of the proposed algorithm and discuss its implementation in a wide range of applications, notably in the problem of learning with shifting experts (a recent COLT open problem). Finally, we provide numerical simulations in the setting of prediction with expert advice with comparisons to the state of the art.
Beyond Disagreement-Based Agnostic Active Learning,We study agnostic active learning, where the goal is to learn a classifier in a pre-specified hypothesis class interactively with as few label queries as possible, while making no assumptions on the true function generating the labels. The main algorithms for this problem are {\em{disagreement-based active learning}}, which has a high label requirement, and {\em{margin-based active learning}}, which only applies to fairly restricted settings. A major challenge is to find an algorithm which achieves better label complexity, is consistent in an agnostic setting, and applies to general classification problems. In this paper, we provide such an algorithm. Our solution is based on two novel contributions -- a reduction from consistent active learning to confidence-rated prediction with guaranteed error, and a novel confidence-rated predictor.
Feature Cross-Substitution in Adversarial Classification,The success of machine learning, particularly in supervised settings, has led to numerous attempts to apply it in adversarial settings such as spam and malware detection. The core challenge in this class of applications is that adversaries are not static data generators, but make a deliberate effort to evade the classifiers deployed to detect them. We investigate both the problem of modeling the objectives of such adversaries, as well as the algorithmic problem of accounting for rational, objective-driven adversaries. In particular, we demonstrate severe shortcomings of feature reduction in adversarial settings using several natural adversarial objective functions, an observation that is particularly pronounced when the adversary is able to substitute across similar features (for example, replace words with synonyms or replace letters in words). We offer a simple heuristic method for making learning more robust to feature cross-substitution attacks. We then present a more general approach based on mixed-integer linear programming with constraint generation, which implicitly trades off overfitting and feature selection in an adversarial setting using a sparse regularizer along with an evasion model. Our approach is the first method for combining an adversarial classification algorithm with a very general class of models of adversarial classifier evasion. We show that our algorithmic approach significantly outperforms state-of-the-art alternatives.
Latent Support Measure Machines for Bag-of-Words Data Classification,In many classification problems, the input is represented as a set of features, e.g., the bag-of-words (BoW) representation of documents. Support vector machines (SVMs) are widely used tools for such classification problems. The performance of the SVMs is generally determined by whether kernel values between data points can be defined properly. However, SVMs for BoW representations have a major weakness in that the co-occurrence of different but semantically similar words cannot be reflected in the kernel calculation. To overcome the weakness, we propose a kernel-based discriminative classifier for BoW data, which we call the latent support measure machine (latent SMM). With the latent SMM, a latent vector is associated with each vocabulary term, and each document is represented as a distribution of the latent vectors for words appearing in the document. To represent the distributions efficiently, we use the kernel embeddings of distributions that hold high order moment information about distributions. Then the latent SMM finds a separating hyperplane that maximizes the margins between distributions of different classes while estimating latent vectors for words to improve the classification performance. In the experiments, we show that the latent SMM achieves state-of-the-art accuracy for BoW text classification, is robust with respect to its own hyper-parameters, and is useful to visualize words.
Bayesian Inference for Structured Spike and Slab Priors,Sparse signal recovery addresses the problem of solving underdetermined linear inverse problems subject to a sparsity constraint. We propose a novel prior formulation, the structured spike and slab prior, which allows to incorporate a priori knowledge of the sparsity pattern by imposing a spatial Gaussian process on the spike and slab probabilities. Thus, prior information on the structure of the sparsity pattern can be encoded using generic covariance functions. Furthermore, we provide a Bayesian inference scheme for the proposed model based on the expectation propagation framework. Using numerical experiments on synthetic data, we demonstrate the benefits of the model.
A* Sampling,The problem of drawing samples from a discrete distribution can be converted into a discrete optimization problem. In this work, we show how sampling from a continuous distribution can be converted into an optimization problem over continuous space. Central to the method is a stochastic process recently described in mathematical statistics that we call the Gumbel process. We present a new construction of the Gumbel process and A* sampling, a practical generic sampling algorithm that searches for the maximum of a Gumbel process using A* search. We analyze the correctness and convergence time of A* sampling and demonstrate empirically that it makes more efficient use of bound and likelihood evaluations than the most closely related adaptive rejection sampling-based algorithms.
A Block-Coordinate Descent Approach for Large-scale Sparse Inverse Covariance Estimation,The sparse inverse covariance estimation problem arises in many statistical applications in machine learning and signal processing. In this problem, the inverse of a covariance matrix of a multivariate normal distribution is estimated, assuming that it is sparse. An $\ell_1$ regularized log-determinant optimization problem is typically solved to approximate such matrices. Because of memory limitations, most existing algorithms are unable to handle large scale instances of this problem. In this paper we present a new block-coordinate descent approach for solving the problem for large-scale data sets. Our method treats the sought matrix block-by-block using quadratic approximations, and we show that this approach has advantages over existing methods in several aspects. Numerical experiments on both synthetic and real gene expression data demonstrate that our approach outperforms the existing state of the art methods, especially for large-scale problems.
A Boosting Framework on Grounds of Online Learning,By exploiting the duality between boosting and online learning, we present a boosting framework which proves to be extremely powerful thanks to employing the vast knowledge available in the online learning area. Using this framework, we develop various algorithms to address multiple practically and theoretically interesting questions including sparse boosting, smooth-distribution boosting, agnostic learning and, as a by-product, some generalization to double-projection online learning algorithms.
Learning to Optimize via Information-Directed Sampling,We propose information-directed sampling -- a new algorithm for online optimization problems in which a decision-maker must balance between exploration and exploitation while learning from partial feedback. Each action is sampled in a manner that minimizes the ratio between the square of expected single-period regret and a measure of information gain: the mutual information between the optimal action and the next observation. We establish an expected regret bound for information-directed sampling that applies across a very general class of models and scales with the entropy of the optimal action distribution. For the widely studied Bernoulli and linear bandit models, we demonstrate simulation performance surpassing popular approaches, including upper confidence bound algorithms, Thompson sampling, and knowledge gradient. Further, we present simple analytic examples illustrating that information-directed sampling can dramatically outperform upper confidence bound algorithms and Thompson sampling due to the way it measures information gain.
Spectral Methods for Indian Buffet Process Inference,The Indian Buffet Process is a versatile statistical tool for modeling distributions over binary matrices. We provide an efficient spectral algorithm as an alternative to costly Variational Bayes and sampling-based algorithms. We derive a novel tensorial characterization of the moments of the Indian Buffet Process proper and for two of its applications. We give a computationally efficient iterative inference algorithm, concentration of measure bounds, and reconstruction guarantees. Our algorithm provides superior accuracy and cheaper computation than comparable Variational Bayesian approach on a number of reference problems.
Learning Mixtures of Ranking Models,This work concerns learning probabilistic models for ranking data in a heterogeneous population. The specific problem we study is learning the parameters of a {\em Mallows Mixture Model}. Despite being widely studied, current heuristics for this problem do not have theoretical guarantees and can get stuck in bad local optima. We present the first polynomial time algorithm which provably learns the parameters of a mixture of two Mallows models. A key component of our algorithm is a novel use of tensor decomposition techniques to learn the top-$k$ prefix in both the rankings. Before this work, even the question of {\em identifiability} in the case of a mixture of two Mallows models was unresolved.
A Residual Bootstrap for High-Dimensional Regression with Near Low-Rank Designs,We study the residual bootstrap (RB) method in the context of high-dimensional linear regression. Specifically, we analyze the distributional approximation of linear contrasts $c^{\top}(\hat{\beta}_{\rho}-\beta)$, where $\hat{\beta}_{\rho}$ is a ridge-regression estimator. When regression coefficients are estimated via least squares, classical results show that RB consistently approximates the laws of contrasts, provided that $p\ll n$, where the design matrix is of size $n\times p$. Up to now, relatively little work has considered how additional structure in the linear model may extend the validity of RB to the setting where $p/n\asymp 1$. In this setting, we propose a version of RB that resamples residuals obtained from ridge regression. Our main structural assumption on the design matrix is that it is nearly low rank --- in the sense that its singular values decay according to a power-law profile. Under a few extra technical assumptions, we derive a simple criterion for ensuring that RB consistently approximates the law of a given contrast. We then specialize this result to study confidence intervals for mean response values $X_i^{\top} \beta$, where $X_i^{\top}$ is the $i$th row of the design. More precisely, we show that conditionally on a Gaussian design with near low-rank structure, RB \emph{simultaneously} approximates all of the laws $X_i^{\top}(\hat{\beta}_{\rho}-\beta)$, $i=1,\dots,n$. This result is also notable as it imposes no sparsity assumptions on $\beta$. Furthermore, since our consistency results are formulated in terms of the Mallows (Kantorovich) metric, the existence of a limiting distribution is not required.
Efficient Structured Matrix Rank Minimization,We study the problem of finding structured low-rank matrices using nuclear norm regularization where the structure is encoded by a linear map. In contrast to most known approaches for linearly structured rank minimization, we do not (a) use the full SVD; nor (b) resort to augmented Lagrangian techniques; nor (c) solve linear systems per iteration. Instead, we formulate the problem differently so that it is amenable to a generalized conditional gradient method, which results in a practical improvement with low per iteration computational cost. Numerical results show that our approach significantly outperforms state-of-the-art competitors in terms of running time, while effectively recovering low rank solutions in stochastic system realization and spectral compressed sensing problems.
Best-Arm Identification in Linear Bandits,We study the best-arm identification problem in linear bandit, where the rewards of the arms depend linearly on an unknown parameter $\theta^*$ and the objective is to return the arm with the largest reward. We characterize the complexity of the problem and introduce sample allocation strategies that pull arms to identify the best arm with a fixed confidence, while minimizing the sample budget. In particular, we show the importance of exploiting the global linear structure to improve the estimate of the reward of near-optimal arms. We analyze the proposed strategies and compare their empirical performance. Finally, as a by-product of our analysis, we point out the connection to the $G$-optimality criterion used in optimal experimental design.
Stochastic Network Design in Bidirected Trees,We investigate the problem of stochastic network design in bidirected trees. In this problem, an underlying phenomenon (e.g., a behavior, rumor, or disease) starts at multiple sources in a tree and spreads in both directions along its edges. Actions can be taken to increase the probability of propagation on edges, and the goal is to maximize the total amount of spread away from all sources. Our main result is a rounded dynamic programming approach that leads to a fully polynomial-time approximation scheme (FPTAS), that is, an algorithm that can find (1)-optimal solutions for any problem instance in time polynomial in the input size and 1/. Our algorithm outperforms competing approaches on a motivating problem from computational sustainability to remove barriers in river networks to restore the health of aquatic ecosystems.
Scaling-up Importance Sampling for Markov Logic Networks,Markov Logic Networks (MLNs) are weighted first-order logic templates for generating large (ground) Markov networks. Lifted inference algorithms for them bring the power of logical inference to probabilistic inference. These algorithms operate as much as possible at the compact first-order level, grounding or propositionalizing the MLN only as necessary. As a result, lifted inference algorithms can be much more scalable than propositional algorithms that operate directly on the much larger ground network. Unfortunately, existing lifted inference algorithms suffer from two interrelated problems, which severely affects their scalability in practice. First, for most real-world MLNs having complex structure, they are unable to exploit symmetries and end up grounding most atoms (the grounding problem). Second, they suffer from the evidence problem, which arises because evidence breaks symmetries, severely diminishing the power of lifted inference. In this paper, we address both problems by presenting a scalable, lifted importance sampling-based approach that never grounds the full MLN. Specifically, we show how to scale up the two main steps in importance sampling: sampling from the proposal distribution and weight computation. Scalable sampling is achieved by using an informed, easy-to-sample proposal distribution derived from a compressed MLN-representation. Fast weight computation is achieved by only visiting a small subset of the sampled groundings of each formula instead of all of its possible groundings. We show that our new algorithm yields an asymptotically unbiased estimate. Our experiments on several MLNs clearly demonstrate the promise of our approach.
Active Regression by Stratification,We propose a new active learning algorithm for parametric linear regression with random design. We provide finite sample convergence guarantees for general distributions in the misspecified model. This is the first active learner for this setting that provably can improve over passive learning. Unlike other learning settings (such as classification), in regression the passive learning rate of O(1/epsilon) cannot in general be improved upon. Nonetheless, the so-called `constant' in the rate of convergence, which is characterized by a distribution-dependent risk, can be improved in many cases. For a given distribution, achieving the optimal risk requires prior knowledge of the distribution. Following the stratification technique advocated in Monte-Carlo function integration, our active learner approaches a the optimal risk using piecewise constant approximations.
Multi-Resolution Cascades for Multiclass Object Detection,An algorithm for learning fast multiclass object detection cascades is introduced. It produces multi-resolution (MRes) cascades, whose early stages are binary target vs. non-target detectors that eliminate false positives, late stages multiclass classifiers that finely discriminate target classes, and middle stages have intermediate numbers of classes, determined in a data-driven manner. This MRes structure is achieved with a new structurally biased boosting algorithm (SBBoost). SBBost extends previous multiclass boosting approaches, whose boosting mechanisms are shown to implement two complementary data-driven biases: 1) the standard bias towards examples difficult to classify, and 2) a bias towards difficult classes. It is shown that structural biases can be implemented by generalizing this class-based bias, so as to encourage the desired MRes structure. This is accomplished through a generalized definition of multiclass margin, which includes a set of bias parameters. SBBoost is a boosting algorithm for maximization of this margin. It can also be interpreted as standard multiclass boosting algorithm augmented with margin thresholds or a cost-sensitive boosting algorithm with costs defined by the bias parameters. A stage adaptive bias policy is then introduced to determine bias parameters in a data driven manner. This is shown to produce MRes cascades that have high detection rate and are computationally efficient. Experiments on multiclass object detection show improved performance over previous solutions.
Exponential Concentration of a Density Functional Estimator,We analyse a plug-in estimator for a large class of integral functionals of one or more continuous probability densities. This class includes important families of entropy, divergence, mutual information, and their conditional versions. For densities on the d-dimensional unit cube [0,1]^d that lie in a beta-Holder smoothness class, we prove our estimator converges at the rate O(n^(1/(beta+d))). Furthermore, we prove that the estimator obeys an exponential concentration inequality about its mean, whereas most previous related results have bounded only expected error of estimators. Finally, we demonstrate our bounds to the case of conditional Renyi mutual information.
Bayes-Adaptive Simulation-based Search with Value Function Approximation,Bayes-adaptive planning offers a principled solution to the exploration-exploitation trade-off under model uncertainty. It finds the optimal policy in belief space, which explicitly accounts for the expected effect on future rewards of reductions in uncertainty. However, the Bayes-adaptive solution is typically intractable in domains with large or continuous state spaces. We present a tractable method for approximating the Bayes-adaptive solution by combining simulation-based search with a novel value function approximation technique that generalises over belief space. Our method outperforms prior approaches in both discrete bandit tasks and simple continuous navigation and control tasks.
Global Sensitivity Analysis for MAP Inference in Graphical Models,We study the sensitivity of a MAP configuration of a discrete probabilistic graphical model with respect to perturbations of its parameters. These perturbations are global, in the sense that simultaneous perturbations of all the parameters (or any chosen subset of them) are allowed. Our main contribution is an exact algorithm that can check whether the MAP configuration is robust with respect to given perturbations. Its complexity is essentially the same as that of obtaining the MAP configuration itself, so it can be promptly used with minimal effort. We use our algorithm to identify the largest global perturbation that does not induce a change in the MAP configuration, and we successfully apply this robustness measure in two practical scenarios: the prediction of facial action units with posed images and the classification of multiple real public data sets. A strong correlation between the proposed robustness measure and accuracy is verified in both scenarios.
Hamming Ball Auxiliary Sampling for Factorial Hidden Markov Models,We introduce a novel sampling algorithm for Markov chain Monte Carlo-based Bayesian inference for factorial hidden Markov models. This algorithm is based on an auxiliary variable construction that restricts the model space allowing iterative exploration in polynomial time. The sampling approach overcomes limitations with common conditional Gibbs samplers that use asymmetric updates and become easily trapped in local modes. Instead, our method uses symmetric moves that allows joint updating of the latent sequences and improves mixing. We illustrate the application of the approach with simulated and a real data example.
Active Learning and Best-Response Dynamics,We consider a setting in which low-power distributed sensors are each making highly noisy measurements of some unknown target function. A center wants to accurately learn this function by querying a small number of sensors, which ordinarily would be impossible due to the high noise rate. The question we address is whether local communication among sensors, together with natural best-response dynamics in an appropriately-dened game, can denoise the system without destroying the true signal and allow the center to succeed from only a small number of active queries. We prove positive (and negative) results on the denoising power of several natural dynamics, and also show experimentally that when combined with recent agnostic active learning algorithms, this process can achieve low error from very few queries, performing substantially better than active or passive learning without these denoising dynamics as well as passive learning with denoising.
Fast Multivariate Spatio-temporal Analysis via Low Rank Tensor Learning,Accurate and efficient analysis of multivariate spatio-temporal data is critical in climatology, geology, and sociology applications. Existing models usually assume simple inter-dependence among variables, space, and time, and are computationally expensive. We propose a unified low rank tensor learning framework for multivariate spatio-temporal analysis, which can conveniently incorporate different properties in spatio-temporal data, such as spatial clustering and shared structure among variables. We demonstrate how the general framework can be applied to cokriging and forecasting tasks, and develop an efficient greedy algorithm to solve the resulting optimization problem with convergence guarantee. We conduct experiments on both synthetic datasets and real application datasets to demonstrate that our method is not only significantly faster than existing methods but also achieves lower estimation error.
Combinatorial Pure Exploration of Multi-Armed Bandits,We study the {\em combinatorial pure exploration (CPE)} problem in the stochastic multi-armed bandit setting, where a learner explores a set of arms with the objective of identifying the optimal member of a \emph{decision class}, which is a collection of subsets of arms with certain combinatorial structures such as size-$K$ subsets, matchings, spanning trees or paths, etc. The CPE problem represents a rich class of pure exploration tasks which covers not only many existing models but also novel cases where the object of interest has a non-trivial combinatorial structure. In this paper, we provide a series of results for the general CPE problem. We present general learning algorithms which work for all decision classes that admit offline maximization oracles in both fixed confidence and fixed budget settings. We prove problem-dependent upper bounds of our algorithms. Our analysis exploits the combinatorial structures of the decision classes and introduces a new analytic tool. We also establish a general problem-dependent lower bound for the CPE problem. Our results show that the proposed algorithms achieve the optimal sample complexity (within logarithmic factors) for many decision classes. In addition, applying our results back to the problems of top-$K$ arms identification and multiple bandit best arms identification, we recover the best available upper bounds up to constant factors and partially resolve a conjecture on the lower bounds.
New Rules for Domain Independent Lifted MAP Inference,Lifted inference algorithms for probabilistic first-order logic frameworks such as Markov logic networks (MLNs) have received significant attention in recent years. These algorithms use so called lifting rules to identify symmetries in the first-order representation and reduce the inference problem over a large probabilistic model to an inference problem over a much smaller model. In this paper, we present two new lifting rules, which enable fast MAP inference in a large class of MLNs. Our first rule uses the concept of single occurrence equivalence class of logical variables, which we define in the paper. The rule states that the MAP assignment over an MLN can be recovered from a much smaller MLN, in which each logical variable in each single occurrence equivalence class is replaced by a constant (i.e., an object in the domain of the variable). Our second rule states that we can safely remove a subset of formulas from the MLN if all equivalence classes of variables in the remaining MLN are single occurrence and all formulas in the subset are tautology (i.e., evaluate to true) at extremes (i.e., assignments with identical truth value for groundings of a predicate). We prove that our two new rules are sound and demonstrate via a detailed experimental evaluation that our approach is superior in terms of scalability and MAP solution quality to the state of the art approaches.
Do Deep Nets Really Need to be Deep?,Currently, deep neural networks are the state of the art on problems such as speech recognition and computer vision. In this paper we empirically demonstrate that shallow feed-forward nets can learn the complex functions previously learned by deep nets and achieve accuracies previously only achievable with deep models. Moreover, in some cases the shallow nets can learn these deep functions using the same number of parameters as the original deep models. On the TIMIT phoneme recognition and CIFAR-10 image recognition tasks, shallow nets can be trained that perform similarly to complex, well-engineered, deeper convolutional models.
Positive Curvature and Hamiltonian Monte Carlo,The Jacobi metric introduced in mathematical physics can be used to analyze Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC). In a geometrical setting, each step of HMC corresponds to a geodesic on a Riemannian manifold with a Jacobi metric. Our calculation of the sectional curvature of this HMC manifold allows us to see that it is positive in cases such as sampling from a high dimensional multivariate Gaussian. We show that positive curvature can be used to prove theoretical concentration results for HMC Markov chains.
Optimizing Energy Production Using Policy Search and Predictive State Representations,We consider the challenging practical problem of optimizing the power production of a complex of hydroelectric power plants, which involves control over three continuous action variables, uncertainty in the amount of water inflows and a variety of constraints that need to be satisfied. We propose a policy-search-based approach coupled with predictive modelling to address this problem. This approach has some key advantages compared to other alternatives, such as dynamic programming: the policy representation and search algorithm can conveniently incorporate domain knowledge; the resulting policies are easy to interpret, and the algorithm is naturally parallelizable. Our algorithm obtains a policy which outperforms the solution found by dynamic programming both quantitatively and qualitatively.
Multi-scale Graphical Models for Spatio-Temporal Processes,Learning the dependency structure between spatially distributed observations of a spatio-temporal process is an important problem in many fields such as geology, geophysics, atmospheric sciences, oceanography, etc. . However, estimation of such systems is complicated by the fact that they exhibit dynamics at multiple scales of space and time arising due to a combination of diffusion and convection/advection. As we show, time-series graphical models based on vector auto-regressive processes are inefcient in capturing such multi-scale structure. In this paper, we present a hierarchical graphical model with physically derived priors that better represents the multi-scale character of these dynamical systems. We also propose algorithms to efciently estimate the interaction structure from data. We demonstrate results on a general class of problems arising in exploration geophysics by discovering graphical structure that is physically meaningful and provide evidence of its advantages over alternative approaches.
Altitude Training: Strong Bounds for Single-Layer Dropout,Dropout training, originally designed for deep neural networks, has been successful on high-dimensional single-layer natural language tasks. This paper proposes a theoretical explanation for this phenomenon: we show that, under a generative Poisson topic model with long documents, dropout training improves the exponent in the generalization bound for empirical risk minimization. Dropout achieves this gain much like a marathon runner who practices at altitude: once a classifier learns to perform reasonably well on training examples that have been artificially corrupted by dropout, it will do very well on the uncorrupted test set. We also show that, under similar conditions, dropout preserves the Bayes decision boundary and should therefore induce minimal bias in high dimensions.
Unsupervised Transcription of Piano Music,We present a new probabilistic model for transcribing piano music from audio to a symbolic form. Our model reflects the process by which discrete musical events give rise to acoustic signals that are then superimposed to produce the observed data. As a result, the inference procedure for our model naturally resolves the source separation problem introduced by the the piano's polyphony. In order to adapt to the properties of a new instrument or acoustic environment being transcribed, we learn recording specific spectral profiles and temporal envelopes in an unsupervised fashion. Our system outperforms the best published approaches on a standard piano transcription task, achieving a 10.6% relative gain in note onset F1 on real piano audio.
RAAM: The Benefits of Robustness in Approximating Aggregated MDPs in Reinforcement Learning,We describe how to use robust Markov decision processes for value function approximation with state aggregation. The robustness serves to reduce the sensitivity to the approximation error of sub-optimal policies in comparison to classical methods such as fitted value iteration. This results in reducing the bounds on the gamma-discounted infinite horizon performance loss by a factor of 1/(1-gamma) while preserving polynomial-time computational complexity. Our experimental results show that using the robust representation can significantly improve the solution quality with minimal additional computational cost.
Convex Deep Learning via Normalized Kernels,Deep learning has been a long standing pursuit in machine learning, which until recently was hampered by unreliable training methods before the discovery of improved heuristics for embedded layer training. A complementary research strategy is to develop alternative modeling architectures that admit efficient training methods while expanding the range of representable structures toward deep models. In this paper, we develop a new architecture for nested nonlinearities that allows arbitrarily deep compositions to be trained to global optimality. The approach admits both parametric and nonparametric forms through the use of normalized kernels to represent each latent layer. The outcome is a fully convex formulation that is able to capture compositions of trainable nonlinear layers to arbitrary depth.
Distance-Based Network Recovery under Feature Correlation,We present an inference method for Gaussian graphical models when only pairwise distances of n objects are observed. Formally, this is a problem of estimating an n x n covariance matrix from the Mahalanobis distances dMH(xi, xj), where object xi lives in a latent feature space. We solve the problem in fully Bayesian fashion by integrating over the Matrix-Normal likelihood and a Matrix-Gamma prior; the resulting Matrix-T posterior enables network recovery even under strongly correlated features. Hereby, we generalize TiWnet, which assumes Euclidean distances with strict feature independence. In spite of the greatly increased flexibility, our model neither loses statistical power nor entails more computational cost. We argue that the extension is highly relevant as it yields significantly better results in both synthetic and real-world experiments, which is successfully demonstrated for a network of biological pathways in cancer patients.
Tree-structured Gaussian Process Approximations,Gaussian process regression can be accelerated by constructing a small pseudo-dataset to summarise the observed data. This idea sits at the heart of many approximation schemes, but such an approach requires the number of pseudo-datapoints to be scaled with the range of the input space if the accuracy of the approximation is to be maintained. This presents problems in time-series settings or in spatial datasets where large numbers of pseudo-datapoints are required since computation typically scales quadratically with the pseudo-dataset size. In this paper we devise an approximation whose complexity grows linearly with the number of pseudo-datapoints. This is achieved by imposing a tree or chain structure on the pseudo-datapoints and calibrating the approximation using a Kullback-Leibler (KL) minimisation. Inference and learning can then be performed efficiently using the Gaussian belief propagation algorithm. We demonstrate the validity of our approach on a set of challenging regression tasks including missing data imputation for audio and spatial datasets. We trace out the speed-accuracy trade-off for the new method and show that the frontier dominates those obtained from a large number of existing approximation techniques.
A State-Space Model for Decoding Auditory Attentional Modulation from MEG in a Competing-Speaker Environment,Humans are able to segregate auditory objects in a complex acoustic scene, through an interplay of bottom-up feature extraction and top-down selective attention in the brain. The detailed mechanism underlying this process is largely unknown and the ability to mimic this procedure is an important problem in artificial intelligence and computational neuroscience. We consider the problem of decoding the attentional state of a listener in a competing-speaker environment from magnetoencephalographic (MEG) recordings from the human brain. We develop a behaviorally inspired state-space model to account for the modulation of the MEG with respect to attentional state of the listener. We construct a decoder based on the maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimate of the state parameters via the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm. The resulting decoder is able to track the attentional modulation of the listener with multi-second resolution using only the envelopes of the two speech streams as covariates. We present simulation studies as well as application to real MEG data from two human subjects. Our results reveal that the proposed decoder provides substantial gains in terms of temporal resolution, complexity, and decoding accuracy.
Optimizing F-Measures by Cost-Sensitive Classification,We present a theoretical analysis of F-measures for binary, multiclass and multilabel classification. These performance measures are non-linear, but in many scenarios they are pseudo-linear functions of the per-class false negative/false positive rate. Based on this observation, we present a general reduction of F-measure maximization to cost-sensitive classification with unknown costs. We then propose an algorithm with provable guarantees to obtain an approximately optimal classifier for the F-measure by solving a series of cost-sensitive classification problems. The strength of our analysis is to be valid on any dataset and any class of classifiers, extending the existing theoretical results on F-measures, which are asymptotic in nature. We present numerical experiments to illustrate the relative importance of cost asymmetry and thresholding when learning linear classifiers on various F-measure optimization tasks.
From MAP to Marginals: Variational Inference in Bayesian Submodular Models,Submodular optimization has found many applications in machine learning and beyond. We carry out the first systematic investigation of inference in probabilistic models defined through submodular functions, generalizing regular pairwise MRFs and Determinantal Point Processes. In particular, we present L-Field, a variational approach to general log-submodular and log-supermodular distributions based on sub- and supergradients. We obtain both lower and upper bounds on the log-partition function, which enables us to compute probability intervals for marginals, conditionals and marginal likelihoods. We also obtain fully factorized approximate posteriors, at the same computational cost as ordinary submodular optimization. Our framework results in convex problems for optimizing over differentials of submodular functions, which we show how to optimally solve. We provide theoretical guarantees of the approximation quality with respect to the curvature of the function. We further establish natural relations between our variational approach and the classical mean-field method. Lastly, we empirically demonstrate the accuracy of our inference scheme on several submodular models.
On the Information Theoretic Limits of Learning Ising Models,We provide a general framework for computing lower-bounds on the sample complexity of recovering the underlying graphs of Ising models, given i.i.d. samples. While there have been recent results for specific graph classes, these involve fairly extensive technical arguments that are specialized to each specific graph class. In contrast, we isolate two key graph-structural ingredients that can then be used to specify sample complexity lower-bounds. Presence of these structural properties makes the graph class hard to learn. We derive corollaries of our main result that not only recover existing recent results, but also provide lower bounds for novel graph classes not considered previously. We also extend our framework to the random graph setting and derive corollaries for Erdos-Renyi graphs in a certain dense setting.
How transferable are features in deep neural networks?,Many deep neural networks trained on natural images exhibit a curious phenomenon in common: on the first layer they learn features similar to Gabor filters and color blobs. Such first-layer features appear not to be specific to a particular dataset or task, but general in that they are applicable to many datasets and tasks. Features must eventually transition from general to specific by the last layer of the network, but this transition has not been studied extensively. In this paper we experimentally quantify the generality versus specificity of neurons in each layer of a deep convolutional neural network and report a few surprising results. Transferability is negatively affected by two distinct issues: (1) the specialization of higher layer neurons to their original task at the expense of performance on the target task, which was expected, and (2) optimization difficulties related to splitting networks between co-adapted neurons, which was not expected. In an example network trained on ImageNet, we demonstrate that either of these two issues may dominate, depending on whether features are transferred from the bottom, middle, or top of the network. We also document that the transferability of features decreases as the distance between the base task and target task increases, but that transferring features even from distant tasks can be better than using random features. A final surprising result is that initializing a network with transferred features from almost any number of layers can produce a boost to generalization that lingers even after fine-tuning to the target dataset.
Deterministic Symmetric Positive Semidefinite Matrix Completion,We consider the problem of recovering a symmetric, positive semidefinite (SPSD) matrix from a subset of its entries, possibly corrupted by noise. In contrast to previous matrix recovery work, we drop the assumption of a random sampling of entries in favor of a deterministic sampling of principal submatrices of the matrix. We develop a set of sufficient conditions for the recovery of a SPSD matrix from a set of its principal submatrices, present necessity results based on this set of conditions and develop an algorithm that can exactly recover a matrix when these conditions are met. The proposed algorithm is naturally generalized to the problem of noisy matrix recovery, and we provide a worst-case bound on reconstruction error for this scenario. Finally, we demonstrate the algorithm's utility on noiseless and noisy simulated datasets.
Spectral Methods for Supervised Topic Models,Supervised topic models simultaneously model the latent topic structure of large collections of documents and a response variable associated with each document. Existing inference methods are based on either variational approximation or Monte Carlo sampling. This paper presents a novel spectral decomposition algorithm to recover the parameters of supervised latent Dirichlet allocation (sLDA) models. The Spectral-sLDA algorithm is provably correct and computationally efficient. We prove a sample complexity bound and subsequently derive a sufficient condition for the identifiability of sLDA. Thorough experiments on a diverse range of synthetic and real-world datasets verify the theory and demonstrate the practical effectiveness of the algorithm.
Spectral Methods meet EM: A Provably Optimal Algorithm for Crowdsourcing,The Dawid-Skene estimator has been widely used for inferring the true labels from the noisy labels provided by non-expert crowdsourcing workers. However, since the estimator maximizes a non-convex log-likelihood function, it is hard to theoretically justify its performance. In this paper, we propose a two-stage efficient algorithm for multi-class crowd labeling problems. The first stage uses the spectral method to obtain an initial estimate of parameters. Then the second stage refines the estimation by optimizing the objective function of the Dawid-Skene estimator via the EM algorithm. We show that our algorithm achieves the optimal convergence rate up to a logarithmic factor. We conduct extensive experiments on synthetic and real datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm is comparable to the most accurate empirical approach, while outperforming several other recently proposed methods.
"How hard is my MDP?" The distribution-norm to the rescue,In Reinforcement Learning (RL), state-of-the-art algorithms require a large number of samples per state-action pair to estimate the transition kernel $p$. In many problems, a good approximation of $p$ is not needed. For instance, if from one state-action pair $(s,a)$, one can only transit to states with the same value, learning $p(\cdot|s,a)$ accurately is irrelevant (only its support matters). This paper aims at capturing such behavior by defining a novel hardness measure for Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) we call the {\em distribution-norm}. The distribution-norm w.r.t.~a measure $\nu$ is defined on zero $\nu$-mean functions $f$ by the standard variation of $f$ with respect to $\nu$. We first provide a concentration inequality for the dual of the distribution-norm. This allows us to replace the generic but loose $||\cdot||_1$ concentration inequalities used in most previous analysis of RL algorithms, to benefit from this new hardness measure. We then show that several common RL benchmarks have low hardness when measured using the new norm. The distribution-norm captures finer properties than the number of states or the diameter and can be used to assess the difficulty of MDPs.
The limits of squared Euclidean distance regularization,Some of the simplest loss functions considered in Machine Learning are the square loss, the logistic loss and the hinge loss. The most common family of algorithms, including Gradient Descent (GD) with and without Weight Decay, always predict with a linear combination of the past instances. We give a random construction for sets of examples where the target linear weight vector is trivial to learn but any algorithm from the above family is drastically sub-optimal. Our lower bound on the latter algorithms holds even if the algorithms are enhanced with an arbitrary kernel function. This type of result was known for the square loss. However, we develop new techniques that let us prove such hardness results for any loss function satisfying some minimal requirements on the loss function (including the three listed above). We also show that algorithms that regularize with the squared Euclidean distance are easily confused by random features. Finally, we conclude by discussing related open problems regarding feed forward neural networks. We conjecture that our hardness results hold for any training algorithm that is based on the squared Euclidean distance regularization (i.e. Back-propagation with the Weight Decay heuristic).
From Stochastic Mixability to Fast Rates,Empirical risk minimization (ERM) is a fundamental learning rule for statistical learning problems where the data is generated according to some unknown distribution $\mathsf{P}$ and returns a hypothesis $f$ chosen from a fixed class $\mathcal{F}$ with small loss $\ell$. In the parametric setting, depending upon $(\ell, \mathcal{F},\mathsf{P})$ ERM can have slow $(1/\sqrt{n})$ or fast $(1/n)$ rates of convergence of the excess risk as a function of the sample size $n$. There exist several results that give sufficient conditions for fast rates in terms of joint properties of $\ell$, $\mathcal{F}$, and $\mathsf{P}$, such as the margin condition and the Bernstein condition. In the non-statistical prediction with expert advice setting, there is an analogous slow and fast rate phenomenon, and it is entirely characterized in terms of the mixability of the loss $\ell$ (there being no role there for $\mathcal{F}$ or $\mathsf{P}$). The notion of stochastic mixability builds a bridge between these two models of learning, reducing to classical mixability in a special case. The present paper presents a direct proof of fast rates for ERM in terms of stochastic mixability of $(\ell,\mathcal{F}, \mathsf{P})$, and in so doing provides new insight into the fast-rates phenomenon. The proof exploits an old result of Kemperman on the solution to the general moment problem. We also show a partial converse that suggests a characterization of fast rates for ERM in terms of stochastic mixability is possible.
Signal Aggregate Constraints in Additive Factorial HMMs, with Application to Energy Disaggregation,Blind source separation problems are difficult because they are inherently unidentifiable, yet the entire goal is to identify meaningful sources. We introduce a way of incorporating domain knowledge into this problem, called signal aggregate constraints (SACs). SACs encourage the total signal for each of the unknown sources to be close to a specified value. This is based on the observation that the total signal often varies widely across the unknown sources, and we often have a good idea of what total values to expect. We incorporate SACs into an additive factorial hidden Markov model (AFHMM) to formulate the energy disaggregation problems where only one mixture signal is assumed to be observed. A convex quadratic program for approximate inference is employed for recovering those source signals. On a real-world energy disaggregation data set, we show that the use of SACs dramatically improves the original AFHMM, and significantly improves over a recent state-of-the art approach.
Sparse Random Feature Algorithm as Coordinate Descent in Hilbert Space,In this paper, we propose a Sparse Random Feature algorithm, which learns a sparse non-linear predictor by minimizing an $\ell_1$-regularized objective function over the Hilbert Space induced from kernel function. By interpreting the algorithm as Randomized Coordinate Descent in the infinite-dimensional space, we show the proposed approach converges to a solution comparable within $\eps$-precision to exact kernel method by drawing $O(1/\eps)$ number of random features, contrasted to the $O(1/\eps^2)$-type convergence achieved by Monte-Carlo analysis in current Random Feature literature. In our experiments, the Sparse Random Feature algorithm obtains sparse solution that requires less memory and prediction time while maintains comparable performance on tasks of regression and classification. In the meantime, as an approximate solver for infinite-dimensional $\ell_1$-regularized problem, the randomized approach converges to better solution than Boosting approach when the greedy step of Boosting cannot be performed exactly.
Simultaneous Model Selection and Optimization through Parameter-free Stochastic Learning,Stochastic gradient descent algorithms for training linear and kernel predictors are gaining more and more importance, thanks to their scalability. While various methods have been proposed to speed up their convergence, the model selection phase is often ignored. In fact, in theoretical works most of the time assumptions are made, for example, on the prior knowledge of the norm of the optimal solution, while in the practical world validation methods remain the only viable approach. In this paper, we propose a new kernel-based stochastic gradient descent algorithm that performs model selection while training, with no parameters to tune, nor any form of cross-validation. The algorithm builds on recent advancement in online learning theory for unconstrained settings, to estimate over time the right regularization in a data-dependent way. Optimal rates of convergence are proved under standard smoothness assumptions on the target function as well as preliminary empirical results.
Multi-Scale Spectral Decomposition of Massive Graphs,Computing the $k$ dominant eigenvalues and eigenvectors of massive graphs is a key operation in numerous machine learning applications; however, popular solvers suffer from slow convergence, especially when $k$ is reasonably large. In this paper, we propose and analyze a novel multi-scale spectral decomposition method (MSEIGS), which first clusters the graph into smaller clusters whose spectral decomposition can be computed efficiently and independently. We show theoretically as well as empirically that the union of all cluster's subspaces has significant overlap with the dominant subspace of the original graph, provided that the graph is clustered appropriately. Thus, eigenvectors of the clusters serve as good initializations to a block Lanczos algorithm that is used to compute spectral decomposition of the original graph. We further use hierarchical clustering to speed up the computation and adopt a fast early termination strategy to compute quality approximations. Our method outperforms widely used solvers in terms of convergence speed and approximation quality. Furthermore, our method is naturally parallelizable and exhibits significant speedups in shared-memory parallel settings. For example, on a graph with more than 82 million nodes and 3.6 billion edges, MSEIGS takes less than 3 hours on a single-core machine while Randomized SVD takes more than 6 hours, to obtain a similar approximation of the top-50 eigenvectors. Using 16 cores, we can reduce this time to less than 40 minutes.
Robust Classification Under Sample Selection Bias,In many important machine learning applications, the source distribution used to estimate a probabilistic classifier differs from the target distribution on which the classifier will be used to make predictions. Due to its asymptotic properties, sample-reweighted loss minimization is a commonly employed technique to deal with this difference. However, given finite amounts of labeled source data, this technique suffers from significant estimation errors in settings with large sample selection bias. We develop a framework for robustly learning a probabilistic classifier that adapts to different sample selection biases using a minimax estimation formulation. Our approach requires only accurate estimates of statistics under the source distribution and is otherwise as robust as possible to unknown properties of the conditional label distribution, except when explicit generalization assumptions are incorporated. We demonstrate the behavior and effectiveness of our approach on synthetic and UCI binary classification tasks.
Multivariate f-divergence Estimation With Confidence,The problem of f-divergence estimation is important in the fields of machine learning, information theory, and statistics. While several divergence estimators exist, relatively few have known convergence properties. In particular, even for those estimators whose MSE convergence rates are known, the asymptotic distributions are unknown. We establish the asymptotic normality of a recently proposed ensemble estimator of f-divergence between two distributions from a finite number of samples. This estimator has MSE convergence rate of O(1/T), is simple to implement, and performs well in high dimensions. This theory enables us to perform divergence-based inference tasks such as testing equality of pairs of distributions based on empirical samples. We experimentally validate our theoretical results and, as an illustration, use them to empirically bound the best achievable classification error.
Decomposing Parameter Estimation Problems,We propose a technique for decomposing the parameter learning problem in Bayesian networks into independent learning problems. Our technique applies to incomplete datasets and exploits variables that are either hidden or observed in the given dataset. We show empirically that the proposed technique can lead to orders-of-magnitude savings in learning time. We explain, analytically and empirically, the reasons behind our reported savings, and compare the proposed technique to related ones that are sometimes used by inference algorithms.
Permutation Diffusion Maps (PDM) with Application to the Image Association Problem in Computer Vision,Consistently matching keypoints across images, and the related problem of finding clusters of nearby images, are critical components of various tasks in Computer Vision, including Structure from Motion (SfM). Unfortunately, occlusion and large repetitive structures tend to mislead most currently used matching algorithms, leading to characteristic pathologies in the final output. In this paper we introduce a new method, Permutations Diffusion Maps (PDM), to solve the matching problem, as well as a related new affinity measure, derived using ideas from harmonic analysis on the symmetric group. We show that just by using it as a preprocessing step to existing SfM pipelines, PDM can greatly improve reconstruction quality on difficult datasets.
Deep Convolutional Neural Network for Image Deconvolution,Many fundamental image-related problems involve deconvolution operators. Real blur degradation seldom complies with an deal linear convolution model due to camera noise, saturation, image compression, to name a few. Instead of perfectly modeling outliers, which is rather challenging from a generative model perspective, we develop a deep convolutional neural network to capture the characteristics of degradation. We note directly applying existing deep neural networks does not produce reasonable results. Our solution is to establish the connection between traditional optimization-based schemes and a neural network architecture where a novel, separable structure is introduced as a reliable support for robust deconvolution against artifacts. Our network contains two submodules, both trained in a supervised manner with proper initialization. They yield decent performance on non-blind image deconvolution compared to previous generative-model based methods.
On Communication Cost of Distributed Statistical Estimation and Dimensionality,We explore the connection between dimensionality and communication cost in distributed learning problems. Specifically we study the problem of estimating the mean $\vectheta$ of an unknown $d$ dimensional gaussian distribution in the distributed setting. In this problem, the samples from the unknown distribution are distributed among $m$ different machines. The goal is to estimate the mean $\vectheta$ at the optimal minimax rate while communicating as few bits as possible. We show that in this setting, the communication cost scales linearly in the number of dimensions i.e. one needs to deal with different dimensions individually. Applying this result to previous lower bounds for one dimension in the interactive setting \cite{ZDJW13} and to our improved bounds for the simultaneous setting, we prove new lower bounds of $\Omega(md/\log(m))$ and $\Omega(md)$ for the bits of communication needed to achieve the minimax squared loss, in the interactive and simultaneous settings respectively. To complement, we also demonstrate an interactive protocol achieving the minimax squared loss with $O(md)$ bits of communication, which improves upon the simple simultaneous protocol by a logarithmic factor. Given the strong lower bounds in the general setting, we initiate the study of the distributed parameter estimation problems with structured parameters. Specifically, when the parameter is promised to be $s$-sparse, we show a simple thresholding based protocol that achieves the same squared loss while saving a $d/s$ factor of communication. We conjecture that the tradeoff between communication and squared loss demonstrated by this protocol is essentially optimal up to logarithmic factor.
Rates of Convergence for Nearest Neighbor Classification,We analyze the behavior of nearest neighbor classification in metric spaces and provide finite-sample, distribution-dependent rates of convergence under minimal assumptions. These are more general than existing bounds, and enable us, as a by-product, to establish the universal consistency of nearest neighbor in a broader range of data spaces than was previously known. We illustrate our upper and lower bounds by introducing a new smoothness class customized for nearest neighbor classification. We find, for instance, that under the Tsybakov margin condition the convergence rate of nearest neighbor matches recently established lower bounds for nonparametric classification.
Learning Neural Network Policies with Guided Policy Search under Unknown Dynamics,We present a policy search method that uses iteratively refitted local linear models to optimize trajectory distributions for large, continuous problems. These trajectory distributions can be used within the framework of guided policy search to learn policies with an arbitrary parameterization. Our method fits time-varying linear dynamics models to speed up learning, but does not rely on learning a global model, which can be difficult when the dynamics are complex and discontinuous. We show that this hybrid approach requires many fewer samples than model-free methods, and can handle complex, nonsmooth dynamics that can pose a challenge for model-based techniques. We present experiments showing that our method can be used to learn complex neural network policies that successfully execute simulated robotic manipulation tasks in partially observed environments with numerous contact discontinuities and underactuation.
Constrained convex minimization via model-based excessive gap,We introduce a model-based excessive gap technique to analyze first-order primal- dual methods for constrained convex minimization. As a result, we construct first- order primal-dual methods with optimal convergence rates on the primal objec- tive residual and the primal feasibility gap of their iterates separately. Through a dual smoothing and prox-center selection strategy, our framework subsumes the augmented Lagrangian, alternating direction, and dual fast-gradient methods as special cases, where our rates apply.
Multi-Class Deep Boosting,We present new ensemble learning algorithms for multi-class classification. Our algorithms can use as a base classifier set a family of deep decision trees or other rich or complex families and yet benefit from strong generalization guarantees. We give new data-dependent learning bounds for convex ensembles in the multi-class classification setting expressed in terms of the Rademacher complexities of the sub-families composing the base classifier set, and the mixture weight assigned to each sub-family. These bounds are finer than existing ones both thanks to an improved dependency on the number of classes and, more crucially, by virtue of a more favorable complexity term expressed as an average of the Rademacher complexities based on the ensembles mixture weights. We introduce and discuss several new multi-class ensemble algorithms benefiting from these guarantees, prove positive results for the H-consistency of several of them, and report the results of experiments showing that their performance compares favorably with that of multi-class versions of AdaBoost and Logistic Regression and their L1-regularized counterparts.
Spectral Learning of Mixture of Hidden Markov Models,In this paper, we propose a learning approach for the Mixture of Hidden Markov Models (MHMM) based on the Method of Moments (MoM). Computational advantages of MoM make MHMM learning amenable for large data sets. It is not possible to directly learn an MHMM with existing learning approaches, mainly due to a permutation ambiguity in the estimation process. We show that it is possible to resolve this ambiguity using the spectral properties of a global transition matrix even in the presence of estimation noise. We demonstrate the validity of our approach on synthetic and real data.
Efficient Sampling for Learning Sparse Additive Models in High Dimensions,We consider the problem of learning sparse additive models, i.e., functions of the form: $f(\vecx) = \sum_{l \in S} \phi_{l}(x_l)$, $\vecx \in \matR^d$ from point queries of $f$. Here $S$ is an unknown subset of coordinate variables with $\abs{S} = k \ll d$. Assuming $\phi_l$'s to be smooth, we propose a set of points at which to sample $f$ and an efficient randomized algorithm that recovers a \textit{uniform approximation} to each unknown $\phi_l$. We provide a rigorous theoretical analysis of our scheme along with sample complexity bounds. Our algorithm utilizes recent results from compressive sensing theory along with a novel convex quadratic program for recovering robust uniform approximations to univariate functions, from point queries corrupted with arbitrary bounded noise. Lastly we theoretically analyze the impact of noise -- either arbitrary but bounded, or stochastic -- on the performance of our algorithm.
Robust Logistic Regression and Classification,We consider logistic regression with arbitrary outliers in the covariate matrix. We propose a new robust logistic regression algorithm, called RoLR, that estimates the parameter through a simple linear programming procedure. We prove that RoLR is robust to a constant fraction of adversarial outliers. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first result on estimating logistic regression model when the covariate matrix is corrupted with any performance guarantees. Besides regression, we apply RoLR to solving binary classification problems where a fraction of training samples are corrupted.
(Almost) No Label No Cry,In Learning with Label Proportions (LLP), the objective is to learn a supervised classifier when, instead of labels, only label proportions for bags of observations are known. This setting has broad practical relevance, in particular for privacy preserving data processing. We first show that the mean operator, a statistic which aggregates all labels, is minimally sufficient for the minimization of many proper scoring losses with linear (or kernelized) classifiers without using labels. We provide a fast learning algorithm that estimates the mean operator via a manifold regularizer with guaranteed approximation bounds. Then, we present an iterative learning algorithm that uses this as initialization. We ground this algorithm in Rademacher-style generalization bounds that fit the LLP setting, introducing a generalization of Rademacher complexity and a Label Proportion Complexity measure. This latter algorithm optimizes tractable bounds for the corresponding bag-empirical risk. Experiments are provided on fourteen domains, whose size ranges up to 300K observations. They display that our algorithms are scalable and tend to consistently outperform the state of the art in LLP. Moreover, in many cases, our algorithms compete with or are just percents of AUC away from the Oracle that learns knowing all labels. On the largest domains, half a dozen proportions can suffice, i.e. roughly 40K times less than the total number of labels.
Near-optimal sample compression for nearest neighbors,We present the first sample compression algorithm for nearest neighbors with non-trivial performance guarantees. We complement these guarantees by demonstrating almost matching hardness lower bounds, which show that our bound is nearly optimal. Our result yields new insight into margin-based nearest neighbor classification in metric spaces and allows us to significantly sharpen and simplify existing bounds. Some encouraging empirical results are also presented.
Learning to Search in Branch and Bound Algorithms,Branch-and-bound is a widely used method in combinatorial optimization, including mixed integer programming, structured prediction and MAP inference. While most work has been focused on developing problem-specific techniques, little is known about how to systematically design the node searching strategy on a branch-and-bound tree. We address the key challenge of learning an adaptive node searching order for any class of problem solvable by branch-and-bound. Our strategies are learned by imitation learning. We apply our algorithm to linear programming based branch-and-bound for solving mixed integer programs (MIP). We compare our method with one of the fastest open-source solvers, SCIP; and a very efficient commercial solver, Gurobi. We demonstrate that our approach achieves better solutions faster on four MIP libraries.
Efficient Minimax Signal Detection on Graphs,Several problems such as network intrusion, community detection, and disease outbreak can be described by observations attributed to nodes or edges of a graph. In these applications presence of intrusion, community or disease outbreak is characterized by novel observations on some unknown connected subgraph. These problems can be formulated in terms of optimization of suitable objectives on connected subgraphs, a problem which is generally computationally difficult. We overcome the combinatorics of connectivity by embedding connected subgraphs into linear matrix inequalities (LMI). Computationally efficient tests are then realized by optimizing convex objective functions subject to these LMI constraints. We prove, by means of a novel Euclidean embedding argument, that our tests are minimax optimal for exponential family of distributions on 1-D and 2-D lattices. We show that internal conductance of the connected subgraph family plays a fundamental role in characterizing detectability.
Projective dictionary pair learning for pattern classification,Discriminative dictionary learning (DL) has been widely studied in various pattern classification problems. Most of the existing DL methods aim to learn a synthesis dictionary to represent the input signal while enforcing the representation coefficients and/or representation residual to be discriminative. However, the $\ell_0$ or $\ell_1$-norm sparsity constraint on the representation coefficients adopted in many DL methods makes the training and testing phases time consuming. We propose a new discriminative DL framework, namely projective dictionary pair learning (DPL), which learns a synthesis dictionary and an analysis dictionary jointly to achieve the goal of signal representation and discrimination. Compared with conventional DL methods, the proposed DPL method can not only greatly reduce the time complexity in the training and testing phases, but also lead to very competitive accuracies in a variety of visual classification tasks.
A Complete Variational Tracker,We introduce a novel probabilistic tracking algorithm that incorporates combinatorial data association constraints and model-based track management using variational Bayes. We use a Bethe entropy approximation to incorporate data association constraints that are often ignored in previous probabilistic tracking algorithms. Noteworthy aspects of our method include a model-based mechanism to replace heuristic logic typically used to initiate and destroy tracks, and an assignment posterior with linear computation cost in window length as opposed to the exponential scaling of previous MAP-based approaches. We demonstrate the applicability of our method on radar tracking and computer vision problems.
Deep Joint Task Learning for Generic Object Extraction,This paper investigates how to extract objects-of-interest without relying on hand-craft features and sliding windows approaches, that aims to jointly solve two sub-tasks: (i) rapidly localizing salient objects from images, and (ii) accurately segmenting the objects based on the localizations. We present a general joint task learning framework, in which each task (either object localization or object segmentation) is tackled via a multi-layer convolutional neural network, and the two networks work collaboratively to boost performance. In particular, we propose to incorporate latent variables bridging the two networks in a joint optimization manner. The first network directly predicts the positions and scales of salient objects from raw images, and the latent variables adjust the object localizations to feed the second network that produces pixelwise object masks. An EM-type method is then studied for the joint optimization, iterating with two steps: (i) by using the two networks, it estimates the latent variables by employing an MCMC-based sampling method; (ii) it optimizes the parameters of the two networks unitedly via back propagation, with the fixed latent variables. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our joint learning framework significantly outperforms other state-of-the-art approaches in both accuracy and efficiency (e.g., 1000 times faster than competing approaches).
Multi-Step Stochastic ADMM in High Dimensions: Applications to Sparse Optimization and Matrix Decomposition,In this paper, we consider a multi-step version of the stochastic ADMM method with efficient guarantees for high-dimensional problems. We first analyze the simple setting, where the optimization problem consists of a loss function and a single regularizer (e.g. sparse optimization), and then extend to the multi-block setting with multiple regularizers and multiple variables (e.g. matrix decomposition into sparse and low rank components). For the sparse optimization problem, our method achieves the minimax rate of $O(s\log d/T)$ for $s$-sparse problems in $d$ dimensions in $T$ steps, and is thus, unimprovable by any method up to constant factors. For the matrix decomposition problem with a general loss function, we analyze the multi-step ADMM with multiple blocks. We establish $O(1/T)$ rate and efficient scaling as the size of matrix grows. For natural noise models (e.g. independent noise), our convergence rate is minimax-optimal. Thus, we establish tight convergence guarantees for multi-block ADMM in high dimensions. Experiments show that for both sparse optimization and matrix decomposition problems, our algorithm outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
Joint Training of a Convolutional Network and a Graphical Model for Human Pose Estimation,This paper proposes a new hybrid architecture that consists of a deep Convolutional Network and a Markov Random Field. We show how this architecture is successfully applied to the challenging problem of articulated human pose estimation in monocular images. The architecture can exploit structural domain constraints such as geometric relationships between body joint locations. We show that joint training of these two model paradigms improves performance and allows us to significantly outperform existing state-of-the-art techniques.
Streaming, Memory Limited Algorithms for Community Detection,In this paper, we consider sparse networks consisting of a finite number of non-overlapping communities, i.e. disjoint clusters, so that there is higher density within clusters than across clusters. Both the intra- and inter-cluster edge densities vanish when the size of the graph grows large, making the cluster reconstruction problem nosier and hence difficult to solve. We are interested in scenarios where the network size is very large, so that the adjacency matrix of the graph is hard to manipulate and store. The data stream model in which columns of the adjacency matrix are revealed sequentially constitutes a natural framework in this setting. For this model, we develop two novel clustering algorithms that extract the clusters asymptotically accurately. The first algorithm is {\it offline}, as it needs to store and keep the assignments of nodes to clusters, and requires a memory that scales linearly with the network size. The second algorithm is {\it online}, as it may classify a node when the corresponding column is revealed and then discard this information. This algorithm requires a memory growing sub-linearly with the network size. To construct these efficient streaming memory-limited clustering algorithms, we first address the problem of clustering with partial information, where only a small proportion of the columns of the adjacency matrix is observed and develop, for this setting, a new spectral algorithm which is of independent interest.
A Filtering Approach to Stochastic Variational Inference,Stochastic variational inference (SVI) uses stochastic optimization to scale up Bayesian computation to massive data. We present an alternative perspective on SVI as approximate parallel coordinate ascent. SVI trades-off bias and variance to step close to the unknown true coordinate optimum given by batch variational Bayes (VB). We define a model to automate this process. The model infers the location of the next VB optimum from a sequence of noisy realizations. As a consequence of this construction, we update the variational parameters using Bayes rule, rather than a hand-crafted optimization schedule. When our model is a Kalman filter this procedure can recover the original SVI algorithm and SVI with adaptive steps. We may also encode additional assumptions in the model, such as heavy-tailed noise. By doing so, our algorithm outperforms the original SVI schedule and a state-of-the-art adaptive SVI algorithm in two diverse domains.
Extracting Certainty from Uncertainty: Transductive Pairwise Classification from Pairwise Similarities,In this work, we study the problem of transductive pairwise classification from pairwise similarities~\footnote{The pairwise similarities are usually derived from some side information instead of the underlying class labels.}. The goal of transductive pairwise classification from pairwise similarities is to infer the pairwise class relationships, to which we refer as pairwise labels, between all examples given a subset of class relationships for a small set of examples, to which we refer as labeled examples. We propose a very simple yet effective algorithm that consists of two simple steps: the first step is to complete the sub-matrix corresponding to the labeled examples and the second step is to reconstruct the label matrix from the completed sub-matrix and the provided similarity matrix. Our analysis exhibits that under several mild preconditions we can recover the label matrix with a small error, if the top eigen-space that corresponds to the largest eigenvalues of the similarity matrix covers well the column space of label matrix and is subject to a low coherence, and the number of observed pairwise labels is sufficiently enough. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm by several experiments.
Recurrent Models of Visual Attention,Applying convolutional neural networks to large images is computationally expensive because the amount of computation scales linearly with the number of image pixels. We present a novel recurrent neural network model that is capable of extracting information from an image or video by adaptively selecting a sequence of regions or locations and only processing the selected regions at high resolution. Like convolutional neural networks, the proposed model has a degree of translation invariance built-in, but the amount of computation it performs can be controlled independently of the input image size. While the model is non-differentiable, it can be trained using reinforcement learning methods to learn task-specific policies. We evaluate our model on several image classification tasks, where it significantly outperforms a convolutional neural network baseline on cluttered images, and on a dynamic visual control problem, where it learns to track a simple object without an explicit training signal for doing so.
Making Pairwise Binary Graphical Models Attractive,Computing the partition function (i.e., the normalizing constant) of a given pairwise binary graphical model is NP-hard in general. As a result, the partition function is typically estimated by approximate inference algorithms such as belief propagation (BP) and tree-reweighted belief propagation (TRBP). The former provides reasonable estimates in practice but has convergence issues. The later has better convergence properties but typically provides poorer estimates. In this work, we propose a novel scheme that has better convergence properties than BP and provably provides better partition function estimates in many instances than TRBP. In particular, given an arbitrary pairwise binary graphical model, we construct a specific ``attractive'' 2-cover. We explore the properties of this special cover and show that it can be used to construct an algorithm with the desired properties.
Causal Strategic Inference in Networked Microfinance Economies,Performing interventions is a major challenge in economic policy-making. We propose \emph{causal strategic inference} as a framework for conducting interventions and apply it to large, networked microfinance economies. The basic solution platform consists of modeling a microfinance market as a networked economy, learning the parameters of the model from the real-world microfinance data, and designing algorithms for various computational problems in question. We adopt Nash equilibrium as the solution concept for our model. For a special case of our model, we show that an equilibrium point always exists and that the equilibrium interest rates are unique. For the general case, we give a constructive proof of the existence of an equilibrium point. Our empirical study is based on the microfinance data from Bangladesh and Bolivia, which we use to first learn our models. We show that causal strategic inference can assist policy-makers by evaluating the outcomes of various types of interventions, such as removing a loss-making bank from the market, imposing an interest rate cap, and subsidizing banks.
Beyond the Birkhoff Polytope: Convex Relaxations for Vector Permutation Problems,The Birkhoff polytope (the convex hull of the set of permutation matrices), which is represented using $\Theta(n^2)$ variables and constraints, is frequently invoked in formulating relaxations of optimization problems over permutations. Using a recent construction of Goemans (2010), we show that when optimizing over the convex hull of the permutation vectors (the permutahedron), we can reduce the number of variables and constraints to $\Theta(n \log n)$ in theory and $\Theta(n \log^2 n)$ in practice. We modify the recent convex formulation of the 2-SUM problem introduced by Fogel et al. (2013) to use this polytope, and demonstrate how we can attain results of similar quality in significantly less computational time for large $n$. To our knowledge, this is the first usage of Goemans' compact formulation of the permutahedron in a convex optimization problem. We also introduce a simpler regularization scheme for this convex formulation of the 2-SUM problem that yields good empirical results.
Self-Paced Learning with Diversity,Self-paced learning (SPL) is a recently proposed learning regime inspired by the learning process of humans and animals that gradually incorporates easy to more complex samples into training. Existing methods are limited in that they ignore an important aspect in learning: diversity. To incorporate this information, we propose an approach called self-paced learning with diversity (SPLD) which formalizes the preference for both easy and diverse samples into a general regularizer. This regularization term is independent of the learning objective, and thus can be easily generalized into various learning tasks. Albeit non-convex, the optimization of the variables included in this SPLD regularization term for sample selection can be globally solved in linearithmic time. We demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms the conventional SPL on three real-world datasets. Specifically, SPLD achieves the best MAP so far reported in literature on the Hollywood2 and Olympic Sports datasets.
Universal Option Models,We consider the problem of learning models of options for real-time abstract planning, in the setting where reward functions can be specified at any time and their expected returns must be efficiently computed. We introduce a new model for an option that is independent of any reward function, called the {\it universal option model (UOM)}. We prove that the UOM of an option can construct a traditional option model given a reward function, and the option-conditional return is computed directly by a single dot-product of the UOM with the reward function. We extend the UOM to linear function approximation, and we show it gives the TD solution of option returns and value functions of policies over options. We provide a stochastic approximation algorithm for incrementally learning UOMs from data and prove its consistency. We demonstrate our method in two domains. The first domain is document recommendation, where each user query defines a new reward function and a document's relevance is the expected return of a simulated random-walk through the document's references. The second domain is a real-time strategy game, where the controller must select the best game unit to accomplish dynamically-specified tasks. Our experiments show that UOMs are substantially more efficient in evaluating option returns and policies than previously known methods.
Bayesian Sampling Using Stochastic Gradient Thermostats,Dynamics-based sampling methods, such as Hybrid Monte Carlo (HMC) and Langevin dynamics (LD), are commonly used to sample target distributions. Recently, such approaches have been combined with stochastic gradient techniques to increase sampling efficiency when dealing with large datasets. An outstanding problem with this approach is that the stochastic gradient introduces an unknown amount of noise which can prevent proper sampling after discretization. To remedy this problem, we show that one can leverage a small number of additional variables in order to stabilize momentum fluctuations induced by the unknown noise. Our method is inspired by the idea of a thermostat in statistical physics and is justified by a general theory.
Multitask learning meets tensor factorization: task imputation via convex optimization,We study a multitask learning problem in which each task is parametrized by a weight vector and indexed by a pair of indices, which can be e.g, (consumer, time). The weight vectors can be collected into a tensor and the (multilinear-)rank of the tensor controls the amount of sharing of information among tasks. Two types of convex relaxations have recently been proposed for the tensor multilinear rank. However, we argue that both of them are not optimal in the context of multitask learning in which the dimensions or multilinear rank are typically heterogeneous. We propose a new norm, which we call the scaled latent trace norm and analyze the excess risk of all the three norms. The results apply to various settings including matrix and tensor completion, multitask learning, and multilinear multitask learning. Both the theory and experiments support the advantage of the new norm when the tensor is not equal-sized and we do not a priori know which mode is low rank.
Spike Frequency Adaptation Implements Anticipative Tracking in Continuous Attractor Neural Networks,To extract motion information, the brain needs to compensate for time delays that are ubiquitous in neural signal transmission and processing. Here we propose a simple yet effective mechanism to implement anticipative tracking in neural systems. The proposed mechanism utilizes the property of spike-frequency adaptation (SFA), a feature widely observed in neuronal responses. We employ continuous attractor neural networks (CANNs) as the model to describe the tracking behaviors in neural systems. Incorporating SFA, a CANN exhibits intrinsic mobility, manifested by the ability of the CANN to hold self-sustained travelling waves. In tracking a moving stimulus, the interplay between the external drive and the intrinsic mobility of the network determines the tracking performance. Interestingly, we find that the regime of anticipation effectively coincides with the regime where the intrinsic speed of the travelling wave exceeds that of the external drive. Depending on the SFA amplitudes, the network can achieve either perfect tracking, with zero-lag to the input, or perfect anticipative tracking, with a constant leading time to the input. Our model successfully reproduces experimentally observed anticipative tracking behaviors, and sheds light on our understanding of how the brain processes motion information in a timely manner.
A statistical model for tensor PCA,We consider the Principal Component Analysis problem for large tensors of arbitrary order k under a single-spike (or rank-one plus noise) model. On the one hand, we use information theory, and recent results in probability theory to establish necessary and sufficient conditions under which the principal component can be estimated using unbounded computational resources. It turns out that this is possible as soon as the signal-to-noise ratio beta becomes larger than C\sqrt{k log k} (and in particular beta can remain bounded has the problem dimensions increase). On the other hand, we analyze several polynomial-time estimation algorithms, based on tensor unfolding, power iteration and message passing ideas from graphical models. We show that, unless the signal-to-noise ratio diverges in the system dimensions, none of these approaches succeeds. This is possibly related to a fundamental limitation of computationally tractable estimators for this problem. For moderate dimensions, we propose an hybrid approach that uses unfolding together with power iteration, and show that it outperforms significantly baseline methods. Finally, we consider the case in which additional side information is available about the unknown signal. We characterize the amount of side information that allow the iterative algorithms to converge to a good estimate.
Hardness of parameter estimation in graphical models,We consider the problem of learning the canonical parameters specifying an undirected graphical model (Markov random field) from the mean parameters. For graphical models representing a minimal exponential family, the canonical parameters are uniquely determined by the mean parameters, so the problem is feasible in principle. The goal of this paper is to investigate the computational feasibility of this statistical task. Our main result shows that parameter estimation is in general intractable: no algorithm can learn the canonical parameters of a generic pair-wise binary graphical model from the mean parameters in time bounded by a polynomial in the number of variables (unless RP = NP). Indeed, such a result has been believed to be true (see the monograph by Wainwright and Jordan) but no proof was known. Our proof gives a polynomial time reduction from approximating the partition function of the hard-core model, known to be hard, to learning approximate parameters. Our reduction entails showing that the marginal polytope boundary has an inherent repulsive property, which validates an optimization procedure over the polytope that does not use any knowledge of its structure (as required by the ellipsoid method and others).
Advances in Learning Bayesian Networks of Bounded Treewidth,This work presents novel algorithms for learning Bayesian networks of bounded treewidth. Both exact and approximate methods are developed. The exact method combines mixed integer linear programming formulations for structure learning and treewidth computation. The approximate method consists in sampling k-trees (maximal graphs of treewidth k), and subsequently selecting, exactly or approximately, the best structure whose moral graph is a subgraph of that k-tree. The approaches are empirically compared to each other and to state-of-the-art methods on a collection of public data sets with up to 100 variables.
Exploiting Linear Structure Within Convolutional Networks for Efficient Evaluation,We present techniques for speeding up the test-time evaluation of large convolutional networks, designed for object recognition tasks. These models deliver impressive accuracy, but each image evaluation requires millions of floating point operations, making their deployment on smartphones and Internet-scale clusters problematic. The computation is dominated by the convolution operations in the lower layers of the model. We exploit the redundancy present within the convolutional filters to derive approximations that significantly reduce the required computation. Using large state-of-the-art models, we demonstrate speedups of convolutional layers on both CPU and GPU by a factor of 2, while keeping the accuracy within 1% of the original model.
Structure Regularization for Structured Prediction,While there are many studies on weight regularization, the study on structure regularization is rare. Many existing systems on structured prediction focus on increasing the level of structural dependencies within the model. However, this trend could have been misdirected, because our study suggests that complex structures are actually harmful to generalization ability in structured prediction. To control structure-based overfitting, we propose a structure regularization framework via \emph{structure decomposition}, which decomposes training samples into mini-samples with simpler structures, deriving a model with better generalization power. We show both theoretically and empirically that structure regularization can effectively control overfitting risk and lead to better accuracy. As a by-product, the proposed method can also substantially accelerate the training speed. The method and the theoretical results can apply to general graphical models with arbitrary structures. Experiments on well-known tasks demonstrate that our method can easily beat the benchmark systems on those highly-competitive tasks, achieving record-breaking accuracies yet with substantially faster training speed.
Incremental Local Gaussian Regression,Locally weighted regression (LWR) was created as a nonparametric method that can approximate a wide range of functions, is computationally efficient, and can learn continually from very large amounts of incrementally collected data. As an interesting feature, LWR can regress on non-stationary functions, a beneficial property, for instance, in control problems. However, it does not provide a proper generative model for function values, and existing algorithms have a variety of manual tuning parameters that strongly influence bias, variance and learning speed of the results. Gaussian (process) regression, on the other hand, does provide a generative model with rather black-box automatic parameter tuning, but it has higher computational cost, especially for big data sets and if a non-stationary model is required. In this paper, we suggest a path from Gaussian (process) regression to locally weighted regression, where we retain the best of both approaches. Using a localizing function basis and approximate inference techniques, we build a Gaussian (process) regression algorithm of increasingly local nature and similar computational complexity to LWR. Empirical evaluations are performed on several synthetic and real robot datasets of increasing complexity and (big) data scale, and demonstrate that we consistently achieve on par or superior performance compared to current state-of-the-art methods while retaining a principled approach to fast incremental regression with minimal manual tuning parameters.
Coresets for k-Segmentation of Streaming Data,Life-logging video streams, financial time series, and Twitter tweets are a few examples of high-dimensional signals over practically unbounded time. We consider the problem of computing optimal segmentation of such signals by k-piecewise linear function, using only one pass over the data by maintaining a coreset for the signal. The coreset enables fast further analysis such as automatic summarization and analysis of such signals. A coreset (core-set) is a compact representation of the data seen so far, which approximates the data well for a specific task -- in our case, segmentation of the stream. We show that, perhaps surprisingly, the segmentation problem admits coresets of cardinality only linear in the number of segments k, independently of both the dimension d of the signal, and its number n of points. More precisely, we construct a representation of size O(klog n /eps^2) that provides a (1+eps)-approximation for the sum of squared distances to any given k-piecewise linear function. Moreover, such coresets can be constructed in a parallel streaming approach. Our results rely on a novel eduction of statistical estimations to problems in computational geometry. We empirically evaluate our algorithms on very large synthetic and real data sets from GPS, video and financial domains, using 255 machines in Amazon cloud.
Analysis of Variational Bayesian Latent Dirichlet Allocation: Weaker Sparsity Than MAP,Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) is a popular generative model of various objects such as texts and images, where an object is expressed as a mixture of latent topics. In this paper, we theoretically investigate variational Bayesian (VB) learning in LDA. More specifically, we analytically derive the leading term of the VB free energy under an asymptotic setup, and show that there exist transition thresholds in Dirichlet hyperparameters around which the sparsity-inducing behavior drastically changes. Then we further theoretically reveal the notable phenomenon that VB tends to induce weaker sparsity than MAP in the LDA model, which is opposed to other models. We experimentally demonstrate the practical validity of our asymptotic theory on real-world Last.FM music data.
Exclusive Feature Learning on Arbitrary Structures via $\ell_{1,2}$-norm,Group lasso is widely used to enforce the structural sparsity, which achieves the sparsity at inter-group level. In this paper, we propose a new formulation called ``exclusive group lasso'', which brings out sparsity at intra-group level in the context of feature selection. The proposed exclusive group lasso is applicable on any feature structures, regardless of their overlapping or non-overlapping structures. We give analysis on the properties of exclusive group lasso, and propose an effective iteratively re-weighted algorithm to solve the corresponding optimization problem with rigorous convergence analysis. We show applications of exclusive group lasso for uncorrelated feature selection. Extensive experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets indicate the good performance of proposed methods.
Algorithm selection by rational metareasoning as a model of human strategy selection,Selecting the right algorithm is an important problem in computer science, because the algorithm often has to exploit the structure of the input to be efficient. The human mind faces the same challenge. Therefore, solutions to the algorithm selection problem can inspire models of human strategy selection and vice versa. Here, we view the algorithm selection problem as a special case of metareasoning and derive a solution that outperforms existing methods in sorting algorithm selection. We apply our theory to model how people choose between cognitive strategies and test its prediction in a behavioral experiment. We find that people quickly learn to adaptively choose between cognitive strategies. People's choices in our experiment are consistent with our model but inconsistent with previous theories of human strategy selection. Rational metareasoning appears to be a promising framework for reverse-engineering how people choose among cognitive strategies and translating the results into better solutions to the algorithm selection problem.
Message Passing Inference for Large Scale Graphical Models with High Order Potentials,To keep up with the Big Data challenge, parallelized algorithms based on dual decomposition have been proposed to perform inference in Markov random fields. Despite this parallelization, current algorithms struggle when the energy has high order terms and the graph is densely connected. In this paper we propose a partitioning strategy followed by a message passing algorithm which is able to exploit pre-computations. It only updates the high-order factors when passing messages across machines. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on the task of joint layout and semantic segmentation estimation from single images, and show that our approach is orders of magnitude faster than current methods.
QUIC & DIRTY: A Quadratic Approximation Approach for Dirty Statistical Models,In this paper, we develop a family of algorithms for optimizing "superposition-structured or dirty statistical estimators for high-dimensional problems involving the minimization of the sum of a smooth loss function with a hybrid regularization. Most of the current approaches are first-order methods, including proximal gradient or Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM). We propose a new family of second-order methods where we approximate the loss function using quadratic approximation. The superposition structured regularizer then leads to a subproblem that can be efficiently solved by alternating minimization. We propose a general active subspace selection approach to speed up the solver by utilizing the low-dimensional structure given by the regularizers, and provide convergence guarantees for our algorithm. Empirically, we show that our approach is more than 10 times faster than state-of-the-art first-order approaches for the latent variable graphical model selection problems and multi-task learning problems when there is more than one regularizer. For these problems, our approach appears to be the first algorithm that can extend active subspace ideas to multiple regularizers.
A Framework for Testing Identifiability of Bayesian Models of Perception,Bayesian observer models are very effective in describing human performance in perceptual tasks, so much so that they are trusted to faithfully recover hidden mental representations of priors, likelihoods, or loss functions from the data. However, the intrinsic degeneracy of the Bayesian framework, as multiple combinations of elements can yield empirically indistinguishable results, prompts the question of model identifiability. We propose a novel framework for a systematic testing of the identifiability of a significant class of Bayesian observer models, with practical applications for improving experimental design. We examine the theoretical identifiability of the inferred internal representations in two case studies. First, we show which experimental designs work better to remove the underlying degeneracy in a time interval estimation task. Second, we find that the reconstructed representations in a speed perception task under a slow-speed prior are fairly robust.
Computing Nash Equilibria in Generalized Interdependent Security Games,We study the computational complexity of computing Nash equilibria in generalized interdependent-security (IDS) games. Like traditional IDS games, originally introduced by economists and risk-assessment experts Heal and Kunreuther about a decade ago, generalized IDS games model agents voluntary investment decisions when facing potential direct risk and transfer risk exposure from other agents. A distinct feature of generalized IDS games, however, is that full investment can reduce transfer risk. As a result, depending on the transfer-risk reduction level, generalized IDS games may exhibit strategic complementarity (SC) or strategic substitutability (SS). We consider three variants of generalized IDS games in which players exhibit only SC, only SS, and both SC+SS. We show that determining whether there is a pure-strategy Nash equilibrium (PSNE) in SC+SS-type games is NP-complete, while computing a single PSNE in SC-type games takes worst-case polynomial time. As for the problem of computing all mixed-strategy Nash equilibria (MSNE) efficiently, we produce a partial characterization. Whenever each agent in the game is indiscriminate in terms of the transfer-risk exposure to the other agents, a case that Kearns and Ortiz originally studied in the context of traditional IDS games in their NIPS 2003 paper, we can compute all MSNE that satisfy some ordering constraints in polynomial time in all three game variants. Yet, there is a computational barrier in the general (transfer) case: we show that the computational problem is as hard as the Pure-Nash-Extension problem, also originally introduced by Kearns and Ortiz, and that it is NP complete for all three variants. Finally, we experimentally examine and discuss the practical impact that the additional protection from transfer risk allowed in generalized IDS games has on MSNE by solving several randomly-generated instances of SC+SS-type games with graph structures taken from several real-world datasets.
Discovering Structure in High-Dimensional Data Through Correlation Explanation,We introduce a method to learn a hierarchy of successively more abstract representations of complex data based on optimizing an information-theoretic objective. Intuitively, the optimization searches for a set of latent factors that best explain the correlations in the data as measured by multivariate mutual information. The method is unsupervised, requires no model assumptions, and scales linearly with the number of variables which makes it an attractive approach for very high dimensional systems. We demonstrate that Correlation Explanation (CorEx) automatically discovers meaningful structure for data from diverse sources including personality tests, DNA, and human language.
Flexible Transfer Learning under Support and Model Shift,Transfer learning algorithms are used when one has sufficient training data for one supervised learning task (the source/training domain) but only very limited training data for a second task (the target/test domain) that is similar but not identical to the first. Previous work on transfer learning has focused on relatively restricted settings, where specific parts of the model are considered to be carried over between tasks. Recent work on covariate shift focuses on matching the marginal distributions on observations $X$ across domains. Similarly, work on target/conditional shift focuses on matching marginal distributions on labels $Y$ and adjusting conditional distributions $P(X|Y)$, such that $P(X)$ can be matched across domains. However, covariate shift assumes that the support of test $P(X)$ is contained in the support of training $P(X)$, i.e., the training set is richer than the test set. Target/conditional shift makes a similar assumption for $P(Y)$. Moreover, not much work on transfer learning has considered the case when a few labels in the test domain are available. Also little work has been done when all marginal and conditional distributions are allowed to change while the changes are smooth. In this paper, we consider a general case where both the support and the model change across domains. We transform both $X$ and $Y$ by a location-scale shift to achieve transfer between tasks. Since we allow more flexible transformations, the proposed method yields better results on both synthetic data and real-world data.
A Statistical Decision-Theoretic Framework for Social Choice,In this paper, we take a statistical decision-theoretic viewpoint on social choice, putting a focus on the decision to be made on behalf of a system of agents. In our framework, we are given a statistical ranking model, a decision space, and a loss function defined on (parameter, decision) pairs, and formulate social choice mechanisms as decision rules that minimize expected loss. This suggests a general framework for the design and analysis of new social choice mechanisms. We compare Bayesian estimators, which minimize Bayesian expected loss, for the Mallows model and the Condorcet model respectively, and the Kemeny rule. We consider various normative properties, in addition to computational complexity and asymptotic behavior. In particular, we show that the Bayesian estimator for the Condorcet model satisfies some desired properties such as anonymity, neutrality, and monotonicity, can be computed in polynomial time, and is asymptotically different from the other two rules when the data are generated from the Condorcet model for some ground truth parameter.
Deep Recursive Neural Networks for Compositionality in Language,Recursive neural networks comprise a class of architecture that can operate on structured input. They have been previously successfully applied to model compositionality in natural language using parse-tree-based structural representations. Even though these architectures are deep in structure, they lack the capacity for hierarchical representation that exists in conventional deep feed-forward networks as well as in recently investigated deep recurrent neural networks. In this work we introduce a new architecture --- a deep recursive neural network (deep RNN) --- constructed by stacking multiple recursive layers. We evaluate the proposed model on the task of fine-grained sentiment classification. Our results show that deep RNNs outperform associated shallow counterparts that employ the same number of parameters. Furthermore, our approach outperforms previous baselines on the sentiment analysis task, including a multiplicative RNN variant as well as the recently introduced paragraph vectors, achieving new state-of-the-art results. We provide exploratory analyses of the effect of multiple layers and show that they capture different aspects of compositionality in language.
Recursive Inversion Models for Permutations,We develop a new exponential family probabilistic model for permutations that can capture hierarchical structure, and that has the well known Mallows and generalized Mallows models as subclasses. We describe how one can do parameter estimation and propose an approach to structure search for this class of models. We provide experimental evidence that this added flexibility both improves predictive performance and enables a deeper understanding of collections of permutations.
Unsupervised learning of an efficient short-term memory network,Learning in recurrent neural networks has been a topic fraught with difficulties and problems. We here report substantial progress in the unsupervised learning of recurrent networks that can keep track of an input signal. Specifically, we show how these networks can learn to efficiently represent their present and past inputs, based on local learning rules only. Our results are based on several key insights. First, we develop a local learning rule for the recurrent weights whose main aim is to drive the network into a regime where, on average, feedforward signal inputs are canceled by recurrent inputs. We show that this learning rule minimizes a cost function. Second, we develop a local learning rule for the feedforward weights that, based on networks in which recurrent inputs already predict feedforward inputs, further minimizes the cost. Third, we show how the learning rules can be modified such that the network can directly encode non-whitened inputs. Fourth, we show that these learning rules can also be applied to a network that feeds a time-delayed version of the network output back into itself. As a consequence, the network starts to efficiently represent both its signal inputs and their history. We develop our main theory for linear networks, but then sketch how the learning rules could be transferred to balanced, spiking networks.
Submodular Attribute Selection for Action Recognition in Video,In real-world action recognition problems, low-level features cannot adequately characterize the rich spatial-temporal structures in action videos. In this work, we encode actions based on attributes that describes actions as high-level concepts: \textit{e.g.}, jump forward and motion in the air. We base our analysis on two types of action attributes. One type of action attributes is generated by humans. The second type is data-driven attributes, which is learned from data using dictionary learning methods. Attribute-based representation may exhibit high variance due to noisy and redundant attributes. We propose a discriminative and compact attribute-based representation by selecting a subset of discriminative attributes from a large attribute set. Three attribute selection criteria are proposed and formulated as a submodular optimization problem. A greedy optimization algorithm is presented and guaranteed to be at least (1-1/e)-approximation to the optimum. Experimental results on the Olympic Sports and UCF101 datasets demonstrate that the proposed attribute-based representation can significantly boost the performance of action recognition algorithms and outperform most recently proposed recognition approaches.
Expectation-Maximization for Learning Determinantal Point Processes,A determinantal point process (DPP) is a probabilistic model of set diversity compactly parameterized by a positive semi-definite kernel matrix. To fit a DPP to a given task, we would like to learn the entries of its kernel matrix by maximizing the log-likelihood of the available data. However, log-likelihood is non-convex in the entries of the kernel matrix, and this learning problem is conjectured to be NP-hard. Thus, previous work has instead focused on more restricted convex learning settings: learning only a single weight for each row of the kernel matrix, or learning weights for a linear combination of DPPs with fixed kernel matrices. In this work we propose a novel algorithm for learning the full kernel matrix. By changing the kernel parameterization from matrix entries to eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and then lower-bounding the likelihood in the manner of expectation-maximization algorithms, we obtain an effective optimization procedure. We test our method on a real-world product recommendation task, and achieve relative gains of up to 16.5% in test log-likelihood compared to the naive approach of maximizing likelihood by projected gradient ascent on the entries of the kernel matrix.
Unsupervised Deep Haar Scattering on Graphs,The classification of high-dimensional data defined on graphs is particularly difficult when the graph geometry is unknown. We introduce a Haar scattering transform on graphs, which computes invariant signal descriptors. It is implemented with a deep cascade of additions, subtractions and absolute values, which iteratively compute orthogonal Haar wavelet transforms. Multiscale neighborhoods of unknown graphs are estimated by minimizing an average total variation, with a pair matching algorithm of polynomial complexity. Supervised classification with dimension reduction is tested on data bases of scrambled images, and for signals sampled on unknown irregular grids on a sphere.
Modeling Deep Temporal Dependencies with Recurrent "Grammar Cells",We propose modeling time series by representing the transformations that take a frame at time t to a frame at time t+1. To this end we show how a bi-linear model of transformations, such as a gated autoencoder, can be turned into a recurrent network, by training it to predict future frames from the current one and the inferred transformation using backprop-through-time. We also show how stacking multiple layers of gating units in a recurrent pyramid makes it possible to represent the syntax of complicated time series, and that it can outperform standard recurrent neural networks in terms of prediction accuracy on a variety of tasks.
Learning Multiple Tasks in Parallel with a Shared Annotator,We introduce a new multi-task framework, in which $K$ online learners are sharing a single annotator with limited bandwidth. On each round, each of the $K$ learners receives an input, and makes a prediction about the label of that input. Then, a shared (stochastic) mechanism decides which of the $K$ inputs will be annotated. The learner that receives the feedback (label) may update its prediction rule, and we proceed to the next round. We develop an online algorithm for multi-task binary classification that learns in this setting, and bound its performance in the worst-case setting. Additionally, we show that our algorithm can be used to solve two bandits problems: contextual bandits, and dueling bandits with context, both allowed to decouple exploration and exploitation. Empirical study with OCR data, vowel prediction (VJ project) and document classification, shows that our algorithm outperforms other algorithms, one of which uses uniform allocation, and essentially makes more (accuracy) for the same labour of the annotator.
Shape and Illumination from Shading using the Generic Viewpoint Assumption,The Generic Viewpoint Assumption (GVA) states that the position of the viewer or the light in a scene is not special. Thus, any estimated parameters from an observation should be stable under small perturbations such as object, viewpoint or light positions. The GVA has been analyzed and quantified in previous works, but has not been put to practical use in actual vision tasks. In this paper, we show how to utilize the GVA to estimate shape and illumination from a single shading image, without the use of other priors. We propose a novel linearized Spherical Harmonics (SH) shading model which enables us to obtain a computationally efficient form of the GVA term. Together with a data term, we build a model whose unknowns are shape and SH illumination. The model parameters are estimated using the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers embedded in a multi-scale estimation framework. In this prior-free framework, we obtain competitive shape and illumination estimation results under a variety of models and lighting conditions, requiring fewer assumptions than competing methods.
Object Localization based on Structural SVM using Privileged Information,We propose a structured prediction algorithm for object localization based on Support Vector Machines (SVMs) using privileged information. Privileged information provides useful high-level knowledge for image understanding and facilitates learning a reliable model even with a small number of training examples. In our setting, we assume that such information is available only at training time since it may be difficult to obtain from visual data accurately without human supervision. Our goal is to improve performance by incorporating privileged information into ordinary learning framework and adjusting model parameters for better generalization. We tackle object localization problem based on a novel structural SVM using privileged information, where an alternating loss-augmented inference procedure is employed to handle the term in the objective function corresponding to privileged information. We apply the proposed algorithm to the Caltech-UCSD Birds 200-2011 dataset, and obtain encouraging results suggesting further investigation into the benefit of privileged information in structured prediction.
On Model Parallelization and Scheduling Strategies for Distributed Machine Learning,Distributed machine learning has typically been approached from a data parallel perspective, where big data are partitioned to multiple workers and an algorithm is executed concurrently over different data subsets under various synchronization schemes to ensure speed-up and/or correctness. A sibling problem that has received relatively less attention is how to ensure efficient and correct model parallel execution of ML algorithms, where parameters of an ML program are partitioned to different workers and undergone concurrent iterative updates. We argue that model and data parallelisms impose rather different challenges for system design, algorithmic adjustment, and theoretical analysis. In this paper, we develop a system for model-parallelism, STRADS, that provides a programming abstraction for scheduling parameter updates by discovering and leveraging changing structural properties of ML programs. STRADS enables a flexible tradeoff between scheduling efficiency and fidelity to intrinsic dependencies within the models, and improves memory efficiency of distributed ML. We demonstrate the efficacy of model-parallel algorithms implemented on STRADS versus popular implementations for topic modeling, matrix factorization, and Lasso.
Poisson Process Jumping between an Unknown Number of Rates: Application to Neural Spike Data,We introduce a model where the rate of an inhomogeneous Poisson process is modified by a Chinese restaurant process. Applying a MCMC sampler to this model allows us to do posterior Bayesian inference about the number of states in Poisson-like data. Our sampler is shown to get accurate results for synthetic data and we apply it to V1 neuron spike data to find discrete firing rate states depending on the orientation of a stimulus.
Approximating Hierarchical MV-sets for Hierarchical Clustering,The goal of hierarchical clustering is to construct a cluster tree, which can be viewed as the modal structure of a density. For this purpose, we use a convex optimization program that can efficiently estimate a family of hierarchical dense sets in high-dimensional distributions. We further extend existing graph-based methods to approximate the cluster tree of a distribution. By avoiding direct density estimation, our method is able to handle high-dimensional data more efficiently than existing density-based approaches. We present empirical results that demonstrate the superiority of our method over existing ones.
Decoupled Variational Gaussian Inference,Variational Gaussian (VG) inference methods that optimize a lower bound to the marginal likelihood are a popular approach for Bayesian inference. These methods are fast and easy to use, while being reasonably accurate. A difficulty remains in computation of the lower bound when the latent dimensionality $L$ is large. Even though the lower bound is concave for many models, its computation requires optimization over $O(L^2)$ variational parameters. Efficient reparameterization schemes can reduce the number of parameters, but give inaccurate solutions or destroy concavity leading to slow convergence. We propose decoupled variational inference that brings the best of both worlds together. First, it maximizes a Lagrangian of the lower bound reducing the number of parameters to $O(N)$, where $N$ is the number of data examples. The reparameterization obtained is unique and recovers maxima of the lower-bound even when the bound is not concave. Second, our method maximizes the lower bound using a sequence of convex problems, each of which is parallellizable over data examples and computes gradient efficiently. Overall, our approach avoids all direct computations of the covariance, only requiring its linear projections. Theoretically, our method converges at the same rate as existing methods in the case of concave lower bounds, while remaining convergent at a reasonable rate for the non-concave case.
Tight Continuous Relaxation of the Balanced k-Cut Problem,Spectral Clustering as a relaxation of the normalized/ratio cut has become one of the standard graph-based clustering methods. Existing methods for the computation of multiple clusters, corresponding to a balanced k-cut of the graph, are either based on greedy techniques or heuristics which have weak connection to the original motivation of minimizing the normalized cut. In this paper we propose a new tight continuous relaxation for any balanced k-cut problem and show that a related recently proposed relaxation is in most cases loose leading to poor performance in practice. For the optimization of our tight continuous relaxation we propose a new algorithm for the hard sum-of-ratios minimization problem which achieves monotonic descent. Extensive comparisons show that our method beats all existing approaches for ratio cut and other balanced k-cut criteria.
Parallel Successive Convex Approximation for Nonsmooth Nonconvex Optimization,Consider the problem of minimizing the sum of a smooth (possibly non-convex) and a convex (possibly nonsmooth) function involving a large number of variables. A popular approach to solve this problem is the block coordinate descent (BCD) method whereby at each iteration only one variable block is updated while the remaining variables are held fixed. With the recent advances in the developments of the multi-core parallel processing technology, it is desirable to parallelize the BCD method by allowing multiple blocks to be updated simultaneously at each iteration of the algorithm. In this work, we propose an inexact parallel BCD approach where at each iteration, a subset of the variables is updated in parallel by minimizing convex approximations of the original objective function. We investigate the convergence of this parallel BCD method for both randomized and cyclic variable selection rules. We analyze the asymptotic and non-asymptotic convergence behavior of the algorithm for both convex and non-convex objective functions. The numerical experiments suggest that for a special case of Lasso minimization problem, the cyclic block selection rule can outperform the randomized rule.
Semi-Separable Hamiltonian Monte Carlo for Inference in Bayesian Hierarchical Models,Sampling from hierarchical Bayesian models is often difficult for MCMC methods, because of the strong correlations between the model parameters and the hyperparameters. Recent Riemannian manifold Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (RMHMC) methods have significant potential advantages in this setting, but are computationally expensive. We introduce a new RMHMC method, which we call semi-separable Hamiltonian Monte Carlo, which uses a specially designed mass matrix that allows the joint Hamiltonian over model parameters and hyperparameters to decompose into two simpler Hamiltonians. This structure is exploited by a new integrator which we call the alternating blockwise leapfrog algorithm. The resulting method can mix faster than simpler Gibbs sampling while being simpler and more efficient than previous instances of RMHMC.
Sparse PCA with Oracle Property,In this paper, we study the estimation of the $k$-dimensional sparse principal subspace of covariance matrix $\Sigma$ in the high-dimensional setting. We aim to recover the oracle principal subspace solution, i.e., the principal subspace estimator obtained assuming the true support is known a priori. To this end, we propose a family of estimators based on the semidefinite relaxation of sparse PCA with novel regularizations. In particular, under a weak assumption on the magnitude of the population projection matrix, one estimator within this family exactly recovers the true support with high probability, has exact rank-$k$, and attains a $\sqrt{s/n}$ statistical rate of convergence with $s$ being the subspace sparsity level and $n$ the sample size. Compared to existing support recovery results for sparse PCA, our approach does not hinge on the spiked covariance model or the limited correlation condition. As a complement to the first estimator that enjoys the oracle property, we prove that, another estimator within the family achieves a sharper statistical rate of convergence than the standard semidefinite relaxation of sparse PCA, even when the previous assumption on the magnitude of the projection matrix is violated. We validate the theoretical results by numerical experiments on synthetic datasets.
Learning convolution filters for inverse covariance estimation of neural network connectivity,We consider the problem of inferring direct neural network connections from Calcium imaging time series. Inverse covariance estimation has proven to be a fast and accurate method for learning macro- and micro-scale network connectivity in the brain and in a recent Kaggle Connectomics competition inverse covariance was the main component of several top ten solutions, including our own and the winning team's algorithm. However, the accuracy of inverse covariance estimation is highly sensitive to signal preprocessing of the Calcium fluorescence time series. Furthermore, brute force optimization methods such as grid search and coordinate ascent over signal processing parameters is a time intensive process, where learning may take several days and parameters that optimize one network may not generalize to networks with different size and parameters. In this paper we show how inverse covariance estimation can be dramatically improved using a simple convolution filter prior to applying sample covariance. Furthermore, these signal processing parameters can be learned quickly using a supervised optimization algorithm. In particular, we maximize a binomial log-likelihood loss function with respect to a convolution filter of the time series and the inverse covariance regularization parameter. Our proposed algorithm is relatively fast on networks the size of those in the competition (1000 neurons), producing AUC scores with similar accuracy to the winning solution in training time under 2 hours on a cpu. Prediction on new networks of the same size is carried out in less than 15 minutes, the time it takes to read in the data and write out the solution.
Incremental Clustering: The Case for Extra Clusters,The explosion in the amount of data available for analysis often necessitates a transition from batch to incremental clustering methods, which process one element at a time and typically store only a small subset of the data. In this paper, we initiate the formal analysis of incremental clustering methods focusing on the types of cluster structure that they are able to detect. We find that the incremental setting is strictly weaker than the batch model, proving that a fundamental class of cluster structures that can readily be detected in the batch setting is impossible to identify using any incremental method. Furthermore, we show how the limitations of incremental clustering can be overcome by allowing additional clusters.
Augur: Data-Parallel Probabilistic Modeling,Implementing inference procedures for each new probabilistic model is time-consuming and error-prone. Probabilistic programming addresses this problem by allowing a user to specify the model and then automatically generating the inference procedure. To make this practical it is important to generate high performance inference code. In turn, on modern architectures, high performance requires parallel execution. In this paper we present Augur, a probabilistic modeling language and compiler for Bayesian networks designed to make effective use of data-parallel architectures such as GPUs. We show that the compiler can generate data-parallel inference code scalable to thousands of GPU cores by making use of the conditional independence relationships in the Bayesian network.
Extracting Latent Structure From Multiple Interacting Neural Populations,Developments in neural recording technology are rapidly enabling the recording of populations of neurons in multiple brain areas simultaneously, as well as the identification of the types of neurons being recorded (e.g., excitatory vs. inhibitory). There is a growing need for statistical methods to study the interaction among multiple, labeled populations of neurons. Rather than attempting to identify direct interactions between neurons (where the number of interactions grows with the number of neurons squared), we propose to extract a smaller number of latent variables from each population and study how the latent variables interact. Specifically, we propose extensions to probabilistic canonical correlation analysis (pCCA) to capture the temporal structure of the latent variables, as well as to distinguish within-population dynamics from across-population interactions (termed Group Latent Auto-Regressive Analysis, gLARA). We then applied these methods to populations of neurons recorded simultaneously in visual areas V1 and V2, and found that gLARA provides a better description of the recordings than pCCA. This work provides a foundation for studying how multiple populations of neurons interact and how this interaction supports brain function.
Fairness in Multi-Agent Sequential Decision-Making,We define a fairness solution criterion for multi-agent decision-making problems, where agents have local interests. This new criterion aims to maximize the worst performance of agents with consideration on the overall performance. We develop a simple linear programming approach and a more scalable game-theoretic approach for computing an optimal fairness policy. This game-theoretic approach formulates this fairness optimization as a two-player, zero-sum game and employs an iterative algorithm for finding a Nash equilibrium, corresponding to an optimal fairness policy. We scale up this approach by exploiting problem structure and value function approximation. Our experiments on resource allocation problems show that this fairness criterion provides a more favorable solution than the utilitarian criterion, and that our game-theoretic approach is significantly faster than linear programming.
Real-Time Decoding of an Integrate and Fire Encoder,Neuronal encoding models range from the detailed biophysically-based Hodgkin Huxley model, to the statistical linear time invariant model specifying firing rates in terms of the extrinsic signal. Decoding the former becomes intractable, while the latter does not adequately capture the nonlinearities present in the neuronal encoding system. For use in practical applications, we wish to record the output of neurons, namely spikes, and decode this signal fast in order to drive a machine, for example a prosthetic device. Here, we introduce a causal, real-time decoder of the biophysically-based Integrate and Fire encoding neuron model. We show that the upper bound of the real-time reconstruction error decreases polynomially in time, and that the L2 norm of the error is bounded by a constant that depends on the density of the spikes, as well as the bandwidth and the decay of the input signal. We numerically validate the effect of these parameters on the reconstruction error.
On Multiplicative Multitask Feature Learning,We investigate a general framework of multiplicative multitask feature learning which decomposes each task's model parameters into a multiplication of two components. One of the components is used across all tasks and the other component is task-specific. Several previous methods have been proposed as special cases of our framework. We study the theoretical properties of this framework when different regularization conditions are applied to the two decomposed components. We prove that this framework is mathematically equivalent to the widely used multitask feature learning methods that are based on a joint regularization of all model parameters, but with a more general form of regularizers. Further, an analytical formula is derived for the across-task component as related to the task-specific component for all these regularizers, leading to a better understanding of the shrinkage effect. Study of this framework motivates new multitask learning algorithms. We propose two new learning formulations by varying the parameters in the proposed framework. Empirical studies have revealed the relative advantages of the two new formulations by comparing with the state of the art, which provides instructive insights into the feature learning problem with multiple tasks.
Randomized Experimental Design for Causal Graph Discovery,We examine the number of controlled experiments required to discover a causal graph. Hauser and Buhlmann showed that the number of experiments required is logarithmic in the cardinality of maximum undirected clique in the essential graph. Their lower bounds, however, assume that the experiment designer cannot use randomization in selecting the experiments. We show that significant improvements are possible with the aid of randomization  in an adversarial (worst-case) setting, the designer can then recover the causal graph using at most O(log log n) experiments in expectation. This bound cannot be improved; we show it is tight for some causal graphs. We then show that in a non-adversarial (average-case) setting, even larger improvements are possible: if the causal graph is chosen uniformly at random under a Erds-Rnyi model then the expected number of experiments to discover the causal graph is constant. Finally, we present computer simulations to complement our theoretic results. Our work exploits a structural characterization of essential graphs by Andersson et al. Their characterization is based upon a set of orientation forcing operations. Our results show a distinction between which forcing operations are most important in worst-case and average-case settings.
Scale Adaptive Blind Deblurring,The presence of noise and small scale structures usually leads to large kernel estimation errors in blind image deblurring empirically, if not a total failure. We present a scale space perspective on blind deblurring algorithms, and introduce a cascaded scale space formulation for blind deblurring. This new formulation suggests a natural approach robust to noise and small scale structures through tying the estimation across multiple scales and balancing the contributions of different scales automatically by learning from data. The proposed formulation also allows to handle non-uniform blur with a straightforward extension. Experiments are conducted on both benchmark dataset and real-world images to validate the effectiveness of the proposed method. One surprising finding based on our approach is that blur kernel estimation is not necessarily best at the finest scale.
Discriminative Unsupervised Feature Learning with Convolutional Neural Networks,Current methods for training convolutional neural networks depend on large amounts of labeled samples for supervised training. In this paper we present an approach for training a convolutional neural network using only unlabeled data. We train the network to discriminate between a set of surrogate classes. Each surrogate class is formed by applying a variety of transformations to a randomly sampled 'seed' image patch. We find that this simple feature learning algorithm is surprisingly successful when applied to visual object recognition. The feature representation learned by our algorithm achieves classification results matching or outperforming the current state-of-the-art for unsupervised learning on several popular datasets (STL-10, CIFAR-10, Caltech-101).
Stochastic Proximal Gradient Descent with Acceleration Techniques,Proximal gradient descent (PGD) and stochastic proximal gradient descent (SPGD) are popular methods for solving regularized risk minimization problems in machine learning and statistics. In this paper, we propose and analyze an accelerated variant of these methods in the mini-batch setting. This method incorporates two acceleration techniques: one is Nesterov's acceleration method, and the other is a variance reduction for the stochastic gradient. Accelerated proximal gradient descent (APG) and proximal stochastic variance reduction gradient (Prox-SVRG) are in a trade-off relationship. We show that our method, with the appropriate mini-batch size, achieves lower overall complexity than both APG and Prox-SVRG.
Diverse Randomized Agents Vote to Win,We investigate the power of voting among diverse, randomized software agents. With teams of computer Go agents in mind, we develop a novel theoretical model of two-stage noisy voting that builds on recent work in machine learning. This model allows us to reason about a collection of agents with different biases (determined by the first-stage noise models), which, furthermore, apply randomized algorithms to evaluate alternatives and produce votes (captured by the second-stage noise models). We analytically demonstrate that a uniform team, consisting of multiple instances of any single agent, must make a significant number of mistakes, whereas a diverse team converges to perfection as the number of agents grows. Our experiments, which pit teams of computer Go agents against strong agents, provide evidence for the effectiveness of voting when agents are diverse.
Partition-wise Linear Models,Region-specific linear models are widely used in practical applications because of their non-linear but highly interpretable model representations. One of the key challenges in their use is non-convexity in simultaneous optimization of regions and region-specific models. This paper proposes novel convex region-specific linear models, which we refer to as partition-wise linear models. Our key ideas are 1) assigning linear models not to regions but to partitions (region-specifiers) and representing region-specific linear models by linear combinations of partition-specific models, and 2) optimizing regions via partition selection from a large number of given partition candidates by means of convex structured regularizations. In addition to providing initialization-free globally-optimal solutions, our convex formulation makes it possible to derive a generalization bound and to use such advanced optimization techniques as proximal methods and decomposition of the proximal maps for sparsity-inducing regularizations. Experimental results demonstrate that our partition-wise linear models perform better than or are at least competitive with state-of-the-art region-specific or locally linear models.
Clamping Variables and Approximate Inference,It was recently proved using graph covers (Ruozzi, 2012) that the Bethe partition function is upper bounded by the true partition function for a binary pairwise model that is attractive. Here we provide a new, arguably simpler proof from first principles. We make use of the idea of clamping a variable to a particular value. For an attractive model, we show that summing over the Bethe partition functions for each sub-model obtained after clamping any variable can only raise (and hence improve) the approximation. In fact, we derive a stronger result that may have other useful implications. Repeatedly clamping until we obtain a model with no cycles, where the Bethe approximation is exact, yields the result. We also provide a related lower bound on a broad class of approximate partition functions of general pairwise multi-label models that depends only on the topology. We demonstrate that clamping a few wisely chosen variables can be of practical value by dramatically reducing approximation error.
Depth Map Prediction from a Single Image using a Multi-Scale Deep Network,Predicting depth is an essential component in understanding the 3D geometry of a scene. While for stereo images local correspondence suffices for estimation, finding depth relations from a single image is less straightforward, requiring integration of both global and local information from various cues. Moreover, the task is inherently ambiguous, with a large source of uncertainty coming from the overall scale. In this paper, we present a new method that addresses this task by employing two deep network stacks: one that makes a coarse global prediction based on the entire image, and another that refines this prediction locally. We also apply a scale-invariant error to help measure depth relations rather than scale. By leveraging the raw datasets as large sources of training data, our method achieves state-of-the-art results on both NYU Depth and KITTI, and matches detailed depth boundaries without the need for superpixelation.
Cone-Constrained Principal Component Analysis,Estimating a vector from noisy quadratic observations is a task that arises naturally in many contexts, from dimensionality reduction, to synchronization and phase retrieval problems. It is often the case that additional information is available about the unknown vector (for instance, sparsity, sign or magnitude of its entries). Many authors propose non-convex quadratic optimization problems that aim at exploiting optimally this information. However, solving these problems is typically NP-hard. We consider a simple model for noisy quadratic observation of an unknown vector $\bvz$. The unknown vector is constrained to belong to a cone $\Cone \ni \bvz$. While optimal estimation appears to be intractable for the general problems in this class, we provide evidence that it is tractable when $\Cone$ is a convex cone with an efficient projection. This is surprising, since the corresponding optimization problem is non-convex and --from a worst case perspective-- often NP hard. We characterize the resulting minimax risk in terms of the statistical dimension of the cone $\delta(\Cone)$. This quantity is already known to control the risk of estimation from gaussian observations and random linear measurements. It is rather surprising that the same quantity plays a role in the estimation risk from quadratic measurements.
Divide-and-Conquer Learning by Anchoring a Conical Hull,We reduce a broad class of machine learning problems, usually addressed by EM or sampling, to the problem of finding the $k$ extremal rays spanning the conical hull of a data point set. These $k$ ``anchors'' lead to a global solution and a more interpretable model that can even outperform EM and sampling on generalization error. To find the $k$ anchors, we propose a novel divide-and-conquer learning scheme ``DCA'' that distributes the problem to $\mathcal O(k\log k)$ same-type sub-problems on different low-D random hyperplanes, each can be solved by any solver. For the 2D sub-problem, we present a non-iterative solver that only needs to compute an array of cosine values and its max/min entries. DCA also provides a faster subroutine for other methods to check whether a point is covered in a conical hull, which improves algorithm design in multiple dimensions and brings significant speedup to learning. We apply our method to GMM, HMM, LDA, NMF and subspace clustering, then show its competitive performance and scalability over other methods on rich datasets.
Mode Estimation for High Dimensional Discrete Tree Graphical Models,This paper studies the following problem: given samples from a high dimensional discrete distribution, we want to estimate the leading $(\delta,\rho)$-modes of the underlying distributions. A point is defined to be a $(\delta,\rho)$-mode if it is a local optimum of the density within a $\delta$-neighborhood under metric $\rho$. As we increase the ``scale'' parameter $\delta$, the neighborhood size increases and the total number of modes monotonically decreases. The sequence of the $(\delta,\rho)$-modes reveal intrinsic topographical information of the underlying distributions. Though the mode finding problem is generally intractable in high dimensions, this paper unveils that, if the distribution can be approximated well by a tree graphical model, mode characterization is significantly easier. An efficient algorithm with provable theoretical guarantees is proposed and is applied to applications like data analysis and multiple predictions.
Concavity of reweighted Kikuchi approximation,We analyze a reweighted version of the Kikuchi approximation for estimating the log partition function of a product distribution defined over a region graph. We establish sufficient conditions for the concavity of our reweighted objective function in terms of weight assignments in the Kikuchi expansion, and show that a reweighted version of the sum product algorithm applied to the Kikuchi region graph will produce global optima of the Kikuchi approximation whenever the algorithm converges. When the region graph has two layers, corresponding to a Bethe approximation, we show that our sufficient conditions for concavity are also necessary. Finally, we provide an explicit characterization of the polytope of concavity in terms of the cycle structure of the region graph. We conclude with simulations that demonstrate the advantages of the reweighted Kikuchi approach.
Augmentative Message Passing for Traveling Salesman Problem and Graph Partitioning,The cutting plane method is an augmentative constrained optimization procedure that is often used with continuous-domain optimization techniques such as linear and convex programs. We investigate the viability of a similar idea within message passing -- for integral solutions -- in the context of two combinatorial problems: 1) For Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), we propose a factor-graph based on Held-Karp formulation, with an exponential number of constraint factors, each of which has an exponential but sparse tabular form. 2) For graph-partitioning (a.k.a. community mining) using modularity optimization, we introduce a binary variable model with a large number of constraints that enforce formation of cliques. In both cases we are able to derive surprisingly simple message updates that lead to competitive solutions on benchmark instances. In particular for TSP we are able to find near-optimal solutions in the time that empirically grows with $N^3$, demonstrating that augmentation is practical and efficient.
Distributed Bayesian Posterior Sampling via Moment Sharing,We propose a distributed Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) inference algorithm for large scale Bayesian posterior simulation. We assume that the dataset is partitioned and stored across nodes of a cluster. Our procedure involves an independent MCMC posterior sampler at each node based on its local partition of the data. Moment statistics of the local posteriors are collected from each sampler and propagated across the cluster using expectation propagation message passing with low communication costs. The moment sharing scheme improves posterior estimation quality by enforcing agreement among the samplers. We demonstrate the speed and inference quality of our method with empirical studies on Bayesian logistic regression and sparse linear regression with a spike-and-slab prior.
Optimal Teaching for Limited-Capacity Human Learners,Basic decisions, such as judging a person as a friend or foe, involve categorizing novel stimuli. Recent work finds that peoples category judgments are guided by a small set of examples that are retrieved from memory at decision time. This limited and stochastic retrieval places limits on human performance for probabilistic classification decisions. In light of this capacity limitation, recent work finds that idealizing training items, such that the saliency of ambiguous cases is reduced, improves human performance on novel test items. One shortcoming of previous work in idealization is that category distributions were idealized in an ad hoc or heuristic fashion. In this contribution, we take a first principles approach to constructing idealized training sets. We apply a machine teaching procedure to a cognitive model that is either limited capacity (as humans are) or unlimited capacity (as most machine learning systems are). As predicted, we find that the machine teacher recommends idealized training sets. We also find that human learners perform best when training recommendations from the machine teacher are based on a limited-capacity model. As predicted, to the extent that the learning model used by the machine teacher conforms to the true nature of human learners, the recommendations of the machine teacher prove effective. Our results provide a normative basis (given capacity constraints) for idealization procedures and offer a novel selection procedure for models of human learning.
Convolutional Neural Network Architectures for Matching Natural Language Sentences,Semantic matching is of central importance to many natural language tasks \cite{bordes2014semantic,RetrievalQA}. A successful matching algorithm needs to adequately model the internal structures of language objects and the interaction between them. As a step toward this goal, we propose convolutional neural network models for matching two sentences, by adapting the convolutional strategy in vision and speech. The proposed models not only nicely represent the hierarchical structures of sentences with their layer-by-layer composition and pooling, but also capture the rich matching patterns at different levels. Our models are rather generic, requiring no prior knowledge on language, and can hence be applied to matching tasks of different nature and in different languages. The empirical study on a variety of matching tasks demonstrates the efficacy of the proposed model on a variety of matching tasks and its superiority to competitor models.
Transportability from Multiple Environments with Limited Experiments: Completeness Results,This paper addresses the problem of $mz$-transportability, that is, transferring causal knowledge collected in several heterogeneous domains to a target domain in which only passive observations and limited experimental data can be collected. The paper first establishes a necessary and sufficient condition for deciding the feasibility of $mz$-transportability, i.e., whether causal effects in the target domain are estimable from the information available. It further proves that a previously established algorithm for computing transport formula is in fact complete, that is, failure of the algorithm implies non-existence of a transport formula. Finally, the paper shows that the do-calculus is complete for the $mz$-transportability class.
PAC-Bayesian AUC classification and scoring,We develop a scoring and classification procedure based on the PAC-Bayesian approach and the AUC (Area Under Curve) criterion. We focus initially on the class of linear score functions. We derive PAC-Bayesian non-asymptotic bounds for two types of prior for the score parameters: a Gaussian prior, and a spike-and-slab prior; the latter makes it possible to perform feature selection. One important advantage of our approach is that it is amenable to powerful Bayesian computational tools. We derive in particular a Sequential Monte Carlo algorithm, as an efficient method which may be used as a gold standard, and an Expectation-Propagation algorithm, as a much faster but approximate method. We also extend our method to a class of non-linear score functions, essentially leading to a nonparametric procedure, by considering a Gaussian process prior.
Biclustering Using Message Passing,Biclustering is the analog of clustering on a bipartite graph. Existent methods infer biclusters through local search strategies that find one cluster at a time; a common technique is to update the row memberships based on the current column memberships, and vice versa. We propose a biclustering algorithm that maximizes a global objective function using message passing. Our objective function closely approximates a general likelihood function, separating a cluster size penalty term into row- and column-count penalties. Because we use a global optimization framework, our approach excels at resolving the overlaps between biclusters, which are important features of biclusters in practice. Moreover, Expectation-Maximization can be used to learn the model parameters if they are unknown. In simulations, we find that our method outperforms two of the best existing biclustering algorithms, ISA and LAS, when the planted clusters overlap. Applied to three gene expression datasets, our method finds coregulated gene clusters that have high quality in terms of cluster size and density.
Learning Chordal Markov Networks by Dynamic Programming,We present an algorithm for finding a chordal Markov network that maximizes any given decomposable scoring function. The algorithm is based on a recursive characterization of clique trees, and it runs in O(4^n) time for n vertices. On an eight-vertex benchmark instance, our implementation turns out to be about ten million times faster than a recently proposed, constraint satisfaction based algorithm (Corander et al., NIPS 2013). Within a few hours, it is able to solve instances up to 18 vertices, and beyond if we restrict the maximum clique size. We also study the performance of a recent integer linear programming algorithm (Bartlett and Cussens, UAI 2013). Our results suggest that, unless we bound the clique sizes, currently only the dynamic programming algorithm is guaranteed to solve instances with around 15 or more vertices.
Multi-View Perceptron: a Deep Model for Learning Face Identity and View Representations,Various factors, such as identities, views (poses), and illuminations, are coupled in face images. Disentangling the identity and view representations is a major challenge in face recognition. Existing face recognition systems either use handcrafted features or learn features discriminatively to improve recognition accuracy. This is different from the behavior of human brain. Intriguingly, even without accessing 3D data, human not only can recognize face identity, but can also imagine face images of a person under different viewpoints given a single 2D image, making face perception in the brain robust to view changes. In this sense, human brain has learned and encoded 3D face models from 2D images. To take into account this instinct, this paper proposes a novel deep neural net, named multi-view perceptron (MVP), which can untangle the identity and view features, and infer a full spectrum of multi-view images in the meanwhile, given a single 2D face image. The identity features of MVP achieve superior performance on the MultiPIE dataset. MVP is also capable to interpolate and predict images under viewpoints that are unobserved in the training data.
Learning Shuffle Ideals Under Restricted Distributions,The class of shuffle ideals is a fundamental sub-family of regular languages. The shuffle ideal generated by a string set $U$ is the collection of all strings containing some string $u \in U$ as a (not necessarily contiguous) subsequence. In spite of its apparent simplicity, the problem of learning a shuffle ideal from given data is known to be computationally intractable. In this paper, we study the PAC learnability of shuffle ideals and present positive results on this learning problem under element-wise independent and identical distributions and Markovian distributions in the statistical query model. A constrained generalization to learning shuffle ideals under product distributions is also provided. In the empirical direction, we propose a heuristic algorithm for learning shuffle ideals from given labeled strings under general unrestricted distributions. Experiments demonstrate the advantage for both efficiency and accuracy of our algorithm.
Improved Distributed Principal Component Analysis,We study the distributed computing setting in which there are multiple servers, each holding a set of points, who wish to compute functions on the union of their point sets. A key task in this setting is Principal Component Analysis (PCA), in which the servers would like to compute a low dimensional subspace capturing as much of the variance of the union of their point sets as possible. Given a procedure for approximate PCA, one can use it to approximately solve problems such as $k$-means clustering and low rank approximation. The essential properties of an approximate distributed PCA algorithm are its communication cost and computational efficiency for a given desired accuracy in downstream applications. We give new algorithms and analyses for distributed PCA which lead to improved communication and computational costs for $k$-means clustering and related problems. Our empirical study on real world data shows a speedup of orders of magnitude, preserving communication with only a negligible degradation in solution quality. Some of these techniques we develop, such as input-sparsity subspace embeddings with high correctness probability with a dimension and sparsity independent of the error probability, may be of independent interest.
Multivariate Regression with Calibration,We propose a new method named calibrated multivariate regression (CMR) for fitting high dimensional multivariate regression models. Compared to existing methods, CMR calibrates the regularization for each regression task with respect to its noise level so that it is simultaneously tuning insensitive and achieves an improved finite-sample performance. Computationally, we develop an efficient smoothed proximal gradient algorithm which has a worst-case iteration complexity $O(1/\epsilon)$, where $\epsilon$ is a pre-specified numerical accuracy. Theoretically, we prove that CMR achieves the optimal rate of convergence in parameter estimation. We illustrate the usefulness of CMR by thorough numerical simulations and show that CMR consistently outperforms other high dimensional multivariate regression methods. We also apply CMR on a brain activity prediction problem and find that CMR is as competitive as the handcrafted model created by human experts.
Stochastic variational inference for hidden Markov models,Variational inference algorithms have proven successful for Bayesian analysis in large data settings, with recent advances using stochastic variational inference (SVI). However, such methods have largely been studied in independent or exchangeable data settings. We develop an SVI algorithm to learn the parameters of hidden Markov models (HMMs) in a time-dependent data setting. The challenge in applying stochastic optimization in this setting arises from dependencies in the chain, which must be broken to consider minibatches of observations. We propose an algorithm that harnesses the memory decay of the chain to adaptively bound errors arising from edge effects. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm on synthetic experiments and a large genomics dataset where a batch algorithm is computationally infeasible.
On Prior Distributions and Approximate Inference for Structured Variables,We present a general framework for constructing prior distributions with structured variables. The prior is defined as the information projection of a base distribution onto distributions supported on the constraint set of interest. In cases where this projection is intractable, we propose a family of parameterized approximations indexed by subsets of the domain. We further analyze the special case of sparse structure. While the optimal prior is intractable in general, we show that approximate inference using convex subsets is tractable, and is equivalent to maximizing a submodular function subject to cardinality constraints. As a result, inference using greedy forward selection provably achieves within a factor of (1-1/e) of the optimal objective value. Our work is motivated by the predictive modeling of high-dimensional functional neuroimaging data. For this task, we employ the Gaussian base distribution induced by local partial correlations and consider the design of priors to capture the domain knowledge of sparse support. Experimental results on simulated data and high dimensional neuroimaging data show the effectiveness of our approach in terms of support recovery and predictive accuracy.
Efficient Inference of Continuous Markov Random Fields with Polynomial Potentials,In this paper, we prove that every multivariate polynomial with even degree can be decomposed into a sum of convex and concave polynomials. Motivated by this property, we exploit the concave-convex procedure to perform inference on continuous Markov random fields with polynomial potentials. In particular, we show that the concave-convex decomposition of polynomials can be expressed as a sum-of-squares optimization, which can be efficiently solved via semidefinite programming. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in the context of 3D reconstruction, shape from shading and image denoising, and show that our approach significantly outperforms existing approaches in terms of efficiency as well as the quality of the retrieved solution.
Generalized Unsupervised Manifold Alignment,In this paper, we propose a generalized Unsupervised Manifold Alignment (GUMA) method to build the connections between different but correlated datasets without any known correspondences. Based on the assumption that datasets of the same theme usually have similar manifold structures, GUMA is formulated into an explicit integer optimization problem considering the structure matching and preserving criteria, as well as the feature comparability of the corresponding points in the mutual embedding space. The main benefits of this model include: (1) simultaneous discovery and alignment of manifold structures; (2) fully unsupervised matching without any pre-specified correspondences; (3) efficient iterative alignment without computations in all permutation cases. Experimental results on dataset matching and real-world applications demonstrate the effectiveness and the practicability of our manifold alignment method.
Distributed Variational Inference in Sparse Gaussian Process Regression and Latent Variable Models,Gaussian processes (GPs) are a powerful tool for probabilistic inference over functions. They have been applied to both regression and non-linear dimensionality reduction, and offer desirable properties such as uncertainty estimates, robustness to over-fitting, and principled ways for tuning hyper-parameters. However the scalability of these models to big datasets remains an active topic of research. We introduce a novel re-parametrisation of variational inference for sparse GP regression and latent variable models that allows for an efficient distributed algorithm. This is done by exploiting the decoupling of the data given the inducing points to re-formulate the evidence lower bound in a Map-Reduce setting. We show that the inference scales well with data and computational resources, while preserving a balanced distribution of the load among the nodes. We further demonstrate the utility in scaling Gaussian processes to big data. We show that GP performance improves with increasing amounts of data in regression (on flight data with 2 million records) and latent variable modelling (on MNIST). The results show that GPs perform better than many common models often used for big data.
Optimization Methods for Sparse Pseudo-Likelihood Graphical Model Selection,Sparse high dimensional graphical model selection is a popular topic in contemporary machine learning. To this end, various useful approaches have been proposed in the context of $\ell_1$ penalized estimation in the Gaussian framework. Though many of these approaches are demonstrably scalable and have leveraged recent advances in convex optimization, they still depend on the Gaussian functional form. To address this gap, a convex pseudo-likelihood based partial correlation graph estimation method (CONCORD) has been recently proposed. This method uses cyclic coordinate-wise minimization of a regression based pseudo-likelihood, and has been shown to have robust model selection properties in comparison with the Gaussian approach. In direct contrast to the parallel work in the Gaussian setting however, this new convex pseudo-likelihood framework has not leveraged the extensive array of methods that have been proposed in the machine learning literature for convex optimization. In this paper, we address this crucial gap by proposing two proximal gradient methods (CONCORD-ISTA and CONCORD-FISTA) for performing $\ell_1$-regularized inverse covariance matrix estimation in the pseudo-likelihood framework. We present timing comparisons with coordinate-wise minimization and demonstrate that our approach yields tremendous pay offs for $\ell_1$-penalized partial correlation graph estimation outside the Gaussian setting, thus yielding the fastest and most scalable approach for such problems. We undertake a theoretical analysis of our approach and rigorously demonstrate convergence, and also derive rates thereof.
Optimal decision-making with time-varying evidence reliability,Previous theoretical and experimental work on optimal decision-making was restricted to the artificial setting of a reliability of the momentary sensory evidence that remained constant within single trials. The work presented here describes the computation and characterization of optimal decision-making in the more realistic case of an evidence reliability that varies across time even within a trial. It shows that, in this case, the optimal behavior is determined by a bound in the decision maker's belief that depends only on the current, but not the past, reliability. We furthermore demonstrate that simpler heuristics fail to match the optimal performance for certain characteristics of the process that determines the time-course of this reliability, causing a drop in reward rate by more than 50%.
Learning Optimal Commitment to Overcome Insecurity,Game-theoretic algorithms for physical security have made an impressive real-world impact. These algorithms compute an optimal strategy for the defender to commit to in a Stackelberg game, where the attacker observes the defender's strategy and best-responds. In order to build the game model, though, the payoffs of potential attackers for various outcomes must be estimated; inaccurate estimates can lead to significant inefficiencies. We design an algorithm that optimizes the defender's strategy with no prior information, by observing the attacker's responses to randomized deployments of resources and learning his priorities. In contrast to previous work, our algorithm requires a number of queries that is polynomial in the representation of the game.
Accelerated Mini-batch Randomized Block Coordinate Descent Method,We consider regularized empirical risk minimization problems. In particular, we minimize the sum of a smooth empirical risk function and a nonsmooth regularization function. When the regularization function is block separable, we can solve the minimization problems in a randomized block coordinate descent (RBCD) manner. Existing RBCD methods usually decrease the objective value by exploiting the partial gradient of a randomly selected block of coordinates in each iteration. Thus they need all data to be accessible so that the partial gradient of the block gradient can be exactly obtained. However, such a ``batch" setting may be computationally expensive in practice. In this paper, we propose a mini-batch randomized block coordinate descent (MRBCD) method, which estimates the partial gradient of the selected block based on a mini-batch of randomly sampled data in each iteration. We further accelerate the MRBCD method by exploiting the semi-stochastic optimization scheme, which effectively reduces the variance of the partial gradient estimators. Theoretically, we show that for strongly convex functions, the MRBCD method attains lower overall iteration complexity than existing RBCD methods. As an application, we further trim the MRBCD method to solve the regularized sparse learning problems. Our numerical experiments shows that the MRBCD method naturally exploits the sparsity structure and achieves better computational performance than existing methods.
Bregman Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers,The mirror descent algorithm (MDA) generalizes gradient descent by using a Bregman divergence to replace squared Euclidean distance. In this paper, we similarly generalize the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) to Bregman ADMM (BADMM), which allows the choice of different Bregman divergences to exploit the structure of problems. BADMM provides a unified framework for ADMM and its variants, including generalized ADMM, inexact ADMM and Bethe ADMM. We establish the global convergence and the $O(1/T)$ iteration complexity for BADMM. In some cases, BADMM can be faster than ADMM by a factor of $O(n/\ln n)$ where $n$ is the dimensionality. In solving the linear program of mass transportation problem, BADMM leads to massive parallelism and can easily run on GPU. BADMM is several times faster than highly optimized commercial software Gurobi.
Analysis of Brain States from Multi-Region LFP Time-Series,The local field potential (LFP) is a source of information about the broad patterns of brain activity, and the frequencies present in these time-series measurements are often highly correlated between regions. It is believed that these regions may jointly constitute a ``brain state,'' relating to cognition and behavior. An infinite hidden Markov model (iHMM) is proposed to model the evolution of brain states, based on electrophysiological LFP data measured at multiple brain regions. A brain state influences the spectral content of each region in the measured LFP. A new state-dependent tensor factorization is employed across brain regions, and the spectral properties of the LFPs are characterized in terms of Gaussian processes (GPs). The LFPs are modeled as a mixture of GPs, with state- and region-dependent mixture weights, and with the spectral content of the data encoded in GP spectral mixture covariance kernels. The model is able to estimate the number of brain states and the number of mixture components in the mixture of GPs. A new variational Bayesian split-merge algorithm is employed for inference. The model infers state changes as a function of external covariates in two novel electrophysiological datasets, using LFP data recorded simultaneously from multiple brain regions in mice; the results are validated and interpreted by subject-matter experts.
large scale canonical correlation analysis with iterative least squares,Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA) is a widely used statistical tool with both well established theory and favorable performance for a wide range of machine learning problems. However, computing CCA for huge datasets can be very slow since it involves implementing QR decomposition or singular value decomposition of huge matrices. In this paper we introduce L-CCA, an iterative algorithm which can compute CCA fast on huge sparse datasets. Theory on both the asymptotic convergence and finite time accuracy of L-CCA are established. The experiments also show that L-CCA outperform other fast CCA approximation schemes on two real datasets.
Graphical Models for Recovering Probabilistic and Causal Queries from Missing Data,We address the problem of deciding whether a causal or probabilistic query is estimable from data corrupted by missing entries, given a model of missingness process. We extend the results of Mohan et al, 2013 by presenting more general conditions for recovering probabilistic queries of the form P(y|x) and P(y,x) as well as causal queries of the form P(y|do(x)). We show that causal queries may be recoverable even when the factors in their identifying estimands are not recoverable. Specifically, we derive graphical conditions for recovering causal effects of the form P(y|do(x)) when Y and its missingness mechanism are not d-separable. Finally, we apply our results to problems of attrition and characterize the recovery of causal effects from data corrupted by attrition.
Just-In-Time Learning for Fast and Flexible Inference,Much of research in machine learning has centered around the search for inference algorithms that are both general-purpose and efficient. The problem is extremely challenging and general inference remains computationally expensive. We seek to address this problem by observing that in most specific applications of a model, we typically only need to perform a small subset of all possible inference computations. Motivated by this, we introduce just-in-time learning, a framework for fast and flexible inference that learns to speed up inference at run-time. Through a series of experiments, we show how this framework can allow us to combine the flexibility of sampling with the efficiency of deterministic message-passing.
Communication Efficient Distributed Machine Learning with the Parameter Server,This paper describes a third-generation parameter server framework for distributed machine learning. This framework offers two relaxations to balance system performance and algorithm efficiency. We propose a new algorithm that takes advantage of this framework to solve non-convex non-smooth problems with convergence guarantees. We present an in-depth analysis of two large scale machine learning problems ranging from $\ell_1$-regularized logistic regression on CPUs to reconstruction ICA on GPUs, using 636TB of real data with hundreds of billions of samples and dimensions. We demonstrate using these examples that the parameter server framework is an effective and straightforward way to scale machine learning to larger problems and systems than have been previously achieved.
Repeated Contextual Auctions with Strategic Buyers,Motivated by real-time advertising exchanges, we analyze the problem of pricing inventory in a repeated posted-price auction. We consider both the cases of a truthful and surplus-maximizing buyer, where the former makes decisions myopically on every round, and the latter may strategically react to our algorithm, forgoing short-term surplus in order to trick the algorithm into setting better prices in the future. We further assume a buyers valuation of a good is a function of a context vector that describes the good being sold. We give the first algorithm attaining sublinear (O(T^{2/3})) regret in the contextual setting against a surplus-maximizing buyer. We also extend this result to repeated second-price auctions with multiple buyers.
Communication-Efficient Distributed Dual Coordinate Ascent,Communication remains the most significant bottleneck in the performance of distributed optimization algorithms for large-scale machine learning. In this paper, we propose a communication-efficient framework, COCOA, that uses local computation in a primal-dual setting to dramatically reduce the amount of necessary communication. We provide a strong convergence rate analysis for this class of algorithms, as well as experiments on real-world distributed datasets with implementations in Spark. In our experiments, we find that as compared to state-of-the-art mini-batch versions of SGD and SDCA algorithms, COCOA converges to the same .001-accurate solution quality on average 25 as quickly.
Smoothed Gradients for Stochastic Variational Inference,Stochastic variational inference (SVI) lets us scale up Bayesian computation to massive data. It uses stochastic optimization to fit a variational distribution, following easy-to-compute noisy natural gradients. As with most traditional stochastic optimization methods, SVI takes precautions to use unbiased stochastic gradients whose expectations are equal to the true gradients. In this paper, we explore the idea of following biased stochastic gradients in SVI. Our method replaces the natural gradient with a similarly constructed vector that uses a fixed-window moving average of some of its previous terms. We will demonstrate the many advantages of this technique. First, its computational cost is the same as for SVI and storage requirements only multiply by a constant factor. Second, it enjoys significant variance reduction over the unbiased estimates, smaller bias than averaged gradients, and leads to smaller mean-squared error against the full gradient. We test our method on latent Dirichlet allocation with three large corpora.
Sequential Monte Carlo for Graphical Models,We propose a new framework for how to use sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) algorithms for inference in probabilistic graphical models (PGM). Via a sequential decomposition of the PGM we find a sequence of auxiliary distributions defined on a monotonically increasing sequence of probability spaces. By targeting these auxiliary distributions using SMC we are able to approximate the full joint distribution defined by the PGM. One of the key merits of the SMC sampler is that it provides an unbiased estimate of the partition function of the model. We also show how it can be used within a particle Markov chain Monte Carlo framework in order to construct high-dimensional block-sampling algorithms for general PGMs.
Automatic Discovery of Cognitive Skills to Improve the Prediction of Student Learning,To master a discipline such as algebra or physics, students must acquire a set of cognitive skills. Traditionally, educators and domain experts manually determine what these skills are and then select practice exercises to hone a particular skill. We propose a technique that uses student performance data to automatically discover the skills needed in a discipline. The technique assigns a latent skill to each exercise such that a student's expected accuracy on a sequence of same-skill exercises improves monotonically with practice. Rather than discarding the skills identified by experts, our technique incorporates a nonparametric prior over the exercise-skill assignments that is based on the expert-provided skills and a weighted Chinese restaurant process. We test our technique on datasets from five different intelligent tutoring systems designed for students ranging in age from middle school through college. We obtain two surprising results. First, in three of the five datasets, the skills inferred by our technique support significantly improved predictions of student performance over the expert-provided skills. Second, the expert-provided skills have little value: our technique predicts student performance nearly as well when it ignores the domain expertise as when it attempts to leverage it. We discuss explanations for these surprising results and also the relationship of our skill-discovery technique to alternative approaches.
Clustering by Nonnegative Matrix Factorization Using Graph Random Walk,Nonnegative Matrix Factorization (NMF) is a promising relaxation technique for clustering analysis.  However, conventional NMF methods that directly approximate the pairwise similarities using the least square error often yield mediocre performance for data in curved manifolds because they can capture only the immediate similarities between data samples.  Here we propose a new NMF clustering method which replaces the approximated matrix with its smoothed version using random walk.  Our method can thus accommodate farther relationships between data samples.  Furthermore, we introduce a novel regularization in the proposed objective function in order to improve over spectral clustering.  The new learning objective is optimized by a multiplicative Majorization-Minimization algorithm with a scalable implementation for learning the factorizing matrix.  Extensive experimental results on real-world datasets show that our method has strong performance in terms of cluster purity.
Bayesian estimation of discrete entropy with mixtures of stick-breaking priors,We consider the problem of estimating Shannon's entropy H in the   under-sampled regime, where the number of possible symbols may be   unknown or countably infinite.  Pitman-Yor processes (a   generalization of Dirichlet processes) provide tractable prior   distributions over the space of countably infinite discrete   distributions, and have found major applications in Bayesian   non-parametric statistics and machine learning. Here we show that   they also provide natural priors for Bayesian entropy estimation,   due to the remarkable fact that the moments of the induced posterior   distribution over H can be computed analytically. We derive   formulas for the posterior mean (Bayes' least squares estimate) and   variance under such priors.  Moreover, we show that a fixed   Dirichlet or Pitman-Yor process prior implies a narrow prior on H,   meaning the prior strongly determines the entropy estimate in the   under-sampled regime. We derive a family of continuous mixing   measures such that the resulting mixture of Pitman-Yor processes   produces an approximately flat (improper) prior over H.  We   explore the theoretical properties of the resulting estimator, and   show that it performs well on data sampled from both exponential and   power-law tailed distributions.
On the Sample Complexity of Robust PCA,We estimate the sample complexity of a recent robust estimator for a generalized version of the inverse covariance matrix. This estimator is used in a convex algorithm for robust subspace recovery (i.e., robust PCA). Our model assumes a sub-Gaussian underlying distribution and an i.i.d.~sample from it. Our main result shows with high probability that the norm of the difference between the generalized inverse covariance of the underlying distribution and its estimator from an i.i.d.~sample of size $N$ is of order $O(N^{-0.5+\eps})$ for arbitrarily small $\eps>0$ (affecting the probabilistic estimate); this rate of convergence is close to one of direct covariance and inverse covariance estimation, i.e., $O(N^{-0.5})$. Our precise probabilistic estimate implies for some natural settings that the sample complexity of the generalized inverse covariance estimation when using the Frobenius norm is $O(D^{2+\delta})$ for arbitrarily small $\delta>0$ (whereas the sample complexity of direct covariance estimation with Frobenius norm is $O(D^{2})$). These results provide similar rates of convergence and sample complexity for the corresponding robust subspace recovery algorithm, which are close to those of PCA. To the best of our knowledge, this is the only work analyzing the sample complexity of any robust PCA algorithm.
Projection Retrieval for Classification,In many applications classification systems often require in the loop human intervention. In such cases the decision process must be transparent and comprehensible simultaneously requiring minimal assumptions on the underlying data distribution. To tackle this problem, we formulate it as an axis-alligned subspacefinding task under the assumption that query specific information dictates the complementary use of the subspaces. We develop a regression-based approach called RECIP that efficiently solves this problem by finding projections that minimize a nonparametric conditional entropy estimator. Experiments show that the method is accurate in identifying the informative projections of the dataset, picking the correct ones to classify query points and facilitates visual evaluation by users.
Homeostatic plasticity in Bayesian spiking networks as Expectation Maximization with posterior constraints,Recent spiking network models of Bayesian inference and unsupervised learning frequently assume either inputs to arrive in a special format or employ complex computations in neuronal activation functions and synaptic plasticity rules. Here we show in a rigorous mathematical treatment how homeostatic processes, which have previously received little attention in this context, can overcome common theoretical limitations and facilitate the neural implementation and performance of existing models. In particular, we show that homeostatic plasticity can be understood as the enforcement of a 'balancing' posterior constraint during probabilistic inference and learning with Expectation Maximization. We link homeostatic dynamics to the theory of variational inference, and show that nontrivial terms, which typically appear during probabilistic inference in a large class of models, drop out. We demonstrate the feasibility of our approach in a spiking Winner-Take-All architecture of Bayesian inference and learning. Finally, we sketch how the mathematical framework can be extended to richer recurrent network architectures. Altogether, our theory provides a novel perspective on the interplay of homeostatic processes and synaptic plasticity in cortical microcircuits, and points to an essential role of homeostasis during inference and learning in spiking networks.
Efficient Sampling for Bipartite Matching Problems,Bipartite matching problems characterize many situations, ranging from ranking in information retrieval to correspondence in vision. Exact inference in real-world applications of these problems is intractable, making efficient approximation methods essential for learning and inference. In this paper we propose a novel {\it sequential matching} sampler based on the generalization of the Plackett-Luce model, which can effectively make large moves in the space of matchings. This allows the sampler to match the difficult target distributions common in these problems: highly multimodal distributions with well separated modes. We present experimental results with bipartite matching problems - ranking and image correspondence - which show that the sequential matching sampler efficiently approximates the target distribution, significantly outperforming other sampling approaches.
Perceptron Learning of SAT,Boolean satisfiability (SAT) as a canonical NP-complete decision problem is one of the most important problems in computer science.  In practice, real-world SAT sentences are drawn from a distribution that may result in efficient algorithms for their solution. Such SAT instances are likely to have shared characteristics and substructures. This work approaches the exploration of a family of SAT solvers as a learning problem.  In particular, we relate polynomial time solvability of a SAT subset to a notion of margin between sentences mapped by a feature function into a Hilbert space.  Provided this mapping is based on polynomial time computable statistics of a sentence, we show that the existance of a margin between these data points implies the existance of a polynomial time solver for that SAT subset based on the Davis-Putnam-Logemann-Loveland algorithm.  Furthermore, we show that a simple perceptron-style learning rule will find an optimal SAT solver with a bounded number of training updates.  We derive a linear time computable set of features and show analytically that margins exist for important polynomial special cases of SAT.  Empirical results show an order of magnitude improvement over a state-of-the-art SAT solver on a hardware verification task.
Convergence and Energy Landscape for Cheeger Cut Clustering,Unsupervised clustering of scattered, noisy and high-dimensional data points is an important and difficult problem. Continuous relaxations of balanced cut problems  yield excellent clustering results. This paper provides rigorous convergence results for two algorithms that solve the relaxed Cheeger Cut minimization.  The first algorithm is a new steepest descent algorithm and the second one is a slight modification of the Inverse Power Method algorithm \cite{pro:HeinBuhler10OneSpec}. While the steepest descent algorithm has better theoretical convergence properties,  in practice both algorithm perform equally.  We also completely characterize the local minima of the relaxed problem in terms of the original balanced cut problem, and relate this characterization to the convergence of the algorithms.
The Lovasz $\theta$ function, SVMs and finding large dense  subgraphs,The Lovasz $\theta$ function of a graph, is a fundamental tool in combinatorial optimization and approximation algorithms.  Computing $\theta$ involves solving a SDP  and is extremely expensive even for moderately sized graphs.  In this paper we establish that the Lovasz $\theta$ function is equivalent to  a kernel learning problem related to one class SVM. This interesting connection opens up many opportunities  bridging graph theoretic algorithms and machine learning.   We show that there exist graphs, which we call $SVM-\theta$ graphs, on which the Lovasz $\theta$ function can be approximated well by a one-class  SVM.    This leads to a novel use of SVM techniques to solve algorithmic problems in large graphs e.g. identifying a planted clique  of size $\Theta({\sqrt{n}})$ in a random graph $G(n,\frac{1}{2})$. A classic approach for this problem involves computing  the $\theta$ function, however it is not scalable due to SDP computation. We show that the random graph with a planted clique is an example of $SVM-\theta$ graph, and as a consequence a SVM based approach  easily identifies the clique in large graphs and is competitive with the  state-of-the-art.    Further, we introduce  the notion of a ''common orthogonal labeling'' which extends the notion  of a ''orthogonal labelling of a single  graph (used in defining the $\theta$ function)  to multiple graphs.  The problem of finding the optimal common orthogonal labelling is cast as a  Multiple Kernel Learning problem and is used to identify a large common dense region in multiple graphs.  The proposed algorithm achieves an order of magnitude scalability compared to the state of the art.
Learning Multiple Tasks using Shared Hypotheses,In this work we consider a setting where we have a very large number   of related tasks with few examples from each individual task. Rather   than either learning each task individually (and having a large   generalization error) or learning all the tasks together using a   single hypothesis (and suffering a potentially large inherent   error), we consider learning a small pool of {\em shared     hypotheses}. Each task is then mapped to a single hypothesis in   the pool (hard association). We derive VC dimension generalization   bounds for our model, based on the number of tasks, shared   hypothesis and the VC dimension of the hypotheses   class. We conducted experiments with both synthetic problems and   sentiment of reviews, which strongly support our approach.
Scalable imputation of genetic data with a discrete fragmentation-coagulation process,We present a Bayesian nonparametric model for genetic sequence data in which a set of genetic sequences is modelled using a Markov model of  partitions. The partitions at consecutive locations in the genome are related by their clusters first splitting and then merging.  Our model can be thought of as a discrete time analogue of continuous time fragmentation-coagulation processes [Teh et al 2011], preserving the important properties of projectivity, exchangeability and reversibility, while being more scalable. We apply this model to the problem of genotype imputation, showing improved computational efficiency while maintaining the same accuracies as in [Teh et al 2011].
Tractable Objectives for Robust Policy Optimization,Robust policy optimization acknowledges that risk-aversion plays a vital role in real-world decision-making. When faced with uncertainty about the effects of actions, the policy that maximizes expected utility over the unknown parameters of the system may also carry with it a risk of intolerably poor performance.  One might prefer to accept lower utility in expectation in order to avoid, or reduce the likelihood of, unacceptable levels of utility under harmful parameter realizations.   In this paper, we take a Bayesian approach to parameter uncertainty, but unlike other methods avoid making any distributional assumptions about the form of this uncertainty.  Instead we focus on identifying optimization objectives for which solutions can be efficiently approximated.  We introduce percentile measures: a very general class of objectives for robust policy optimization, which encompasses most existing approaches, including ones known to be intractable. We then introduce a broad subclass of this family for which robust policies can be approximated efficiently. Finally, we frame these objectives in the context of a two-player, zero-sum, extensive-form game and employ a no-regret algorithm to approximate an optimal policy, with computation only polynomial in the number of states and actions of the MDP.
Recognizing Activities by Attribute Dynamics,In this work, we consider the problem of modeling the dynamic structure of human activities in  the attributes space. A video sequence is first represented in a semantic feature space, where each feature encodes the probability of  occurrence of an activity attribute at a given time. A generative model,  denoted the binary dynamic system (BDS), is proposed to learn both the distribution and dynamics of different activities in this  space. The BDS is a non-linear dynamic system, which extends both the binary  principal component analysis (PCA) and classical linear dynamic systems (LDS), by combining binary observation variables with a hidden Gauss-Markov state  process. In this way, it integrates the representation power of semantic  modeling with the ability of dynamic systems to capture the temporal structure of time-varying processes. An algorithm for learning BDS  parameters, inspired by a popular LDS  learning method from dynamic textures, is proposed. A similarity measure between BDSs, which generalizes  the Binet-Cauchy kernel for LDS, is then introduced and used to design  activity classifiers. The proposed method is shown to outperform similar classifiers  derived from the kernel dynamic system (KDS) and state-of-the-art approaches for  dynamics-based or attribute-based action recognition.
Submodular Bregman Divergences with Applications,We introduce a class of discrete divergences on sets (equivalently  binary vectors) that we call the submodular Bregman divergences. We   consider two kinds,   defined either from tight modular upper or tight modular lower   bounds of a submodular function. We show that the properties of   these divergences are analogous to the (standard continuous) Bregman   divergence. Further, we demonstrate how they generalize many useful   divergences, including the weighted Hamming distance, squared   weighted Hamming, weighted precision, recall, conditional mutual   information, and a generalized KL-divergence on sets. We also show   that the lower bound submodular Bregman is actually a special case   of the generalized Bregman divergence on the \lovasz{} extension of   a submodular function which we call the \lovasz{} Bregman divergence. We then   point out a number of applications of the submodular Bregman   divergences, and in particular show that a proximal   algorithm defined through the submodular Bregman divergences   provides a framework for many mirror-descent style algorithms related   to submodular function optimization. We also show that a   generalization of the k-means algorithm using the \lovasz{} Bregman divergence is natural in clustering scenarios where   the ordering is important. A unique property of this algorithm is that computing the mean ordering is extremely efficient unlike the other order based distance measures. \extendedv{Finally we provide a     clustering framework for the submodular Bregman, and we derive     fast algorithms for clustering sets of binary vectors     (equivalently sets of sets).
Multi-scale Hyper-time Hardware Emulation of Human Motor Nervous System Based on Spiking Neurons using FPGA,Our central goal is to quantify the long-term progression of pediatric neurological diseases, such as a typical 10-15 years progression of child dystonia. To this purpose, quantitative models are convincing only if they can provide multi-scale details ranging from neuron spikes to limb biomechanics. The models also need to be evaluated in hyper-time, i.e. significantly faster than real-time, for producing useful predictions. We designed a platform with digital VLSI hardware for multi-scale hyper-time emulations of human motor nervous systems. The platform is constructed on a scalable, distributed array of Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) devices. All devices operate asynchronously with 1 millisecond time granularity, and the overall system is accelerated to 365x real-time. Each physiological component is implemented using models from well documented studies and can be flexibly modified. Thus the validity of emulation can be easily advised by neurophysiologists and clinicians. For maximizing the speed of emulation, all calculations are implemented in combinational logic instead of clocked iterative circuits. This paper presents the methodology of building FPGA modules in correspondence to components of a monosynaptic spinal loop. Results of emulated activities are shown. The paper also discusses the rationale of approximating neural circuitry by organizing neurons with sparse interconnections. In conclusion, our platform allows introducing various abnormalities into the neural emulation such that the emerging motor symptoms can be analyzed. It compels us to test the origins of childhood motor disorders and predict their long-term progressions.
Slice sampling normalized kernel-weighted completely random measure mixture models,A number of dependent nonparametric processes have been proposed to model non-stationary data with unknown latent dimensionality.  However, the inference algorithms are often slow and unwieldy, and are in general highly specific to a given model formulation. In this paper, we describe a wide class of nonparametric processes, including several existing models, and present a slice sampler that allows efficient inference across this class of models.
Iterative Thresholding Algorithm for Sparse Inverse Covariance Estimation,Sparse graphical modelling/inverse covariance selection is an important problem in machine learning and has seen significant advances in recent years. A major focus has been on methods which perform model selection in high dimensions. To this end, numerous convex $\ell_1$ regularization approaches have been proposed in the literature. It is not however clear which of these methods are optimal in any well-defined sense. A major gap in this regard pertains to the rate of convergence of proposed optimization methods. To address this, an iterative thresholding algorithm for numerically solving the $\ell_1$-penalized maximum likelihood problem for sparse inverse covariance estimation is presented. The proximal gradient method considered in this paper is shown to converge at a linear rate, a result which is the first of its kind for numerically solving the sparse inverse covariance estimation problem. The convergence rate is provided in closed form, and is related to the condition number of the optimal point. Numerical results demonstrating the proven rate of convergence are presented.
Synchronization can Control Regularization in Neural Systems via Correlated Noise Processes,To learn reliable rules that can generalize to novel situations, the brain must be capable of imposing some form of regularization. Here we suggest, through theoretical and computational arguments, that the combination of noise with synchronization provides a plausible mechanism for regularization in the nervous system. The functional role of regularization is considered in a general context in which coupled computational systems receive inputs corrupted by correlated noise. Noise on the inputs is shown to impose regularization, and when synchronization upstream induces time-varying correlations across noise variables, the degree of regularization can be calibrated over time. The resulting qualitative behavior matches experimental data from visual cortex.
Optimal kernel choice for large-scale two-sample tests,Abstract Given samples from distributions $p$ and $q$, a two-sample test determines whether to reject the null hypothesis that $p=q$, based on the value of a test statistic measuring the distance between the samples. One choice of test statistic is the maximum mean discrepancy (MMD), which is a distance between embeddings of the probability distributions in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. The kernel used in obtaining these embeddings is thus critical in ensuring the test has high power, and correctly distinguishes unlike distributions with high probability. A means of parameter selection for the two-sample test based on the MMD is proposed. For a given test level (an upper bound on the probability of making a Type I error), the kernel is chosen so as to maximize the test power, and minimize the probability of making a Type II error. The test statistic, test threshold, and optimization over the kernel parameters are obtained with cost linear in the sample size. These properties make the kernel selection and test procedures suited to data streams, where the observations cannot all be stored in memory. In experiments, the new kernel selection approach yields a more powerful test than earlier kernel selection heuristics.
Cardinality Restricted Boltzmann Machines,The Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) is a popular density model that is also good for extracting features. A main source of tractability in RBM models is the model's assumption that given an input, hidden units activate independently from one another. Sparsity and competition in the hidden representation is believed to be beneficial, and while an RBM with competition among its hidden units would acquire some of the attractive properties of sparse coding, such constraints are not added  due to the widespread belief that the resulting model would become intractable.  In this work, we show how a dynamic programming algorithm developed in 1981 can be used to implement exact sparsity in the RBM's hidden units. We then expand on this and show how to pass derivatives through a layer of exact sparsity, which makes it possible to fine-tune a deep belief network (DBN) consisting of RBMs with sparse hidden layers.  We show that sparsity in the RBM's hidden layer improves the performance of both the pre-trained representations and of the fine-tuned model.
Spiking and saturating dendrites differentially expand single neuron computation capacity.,The integration of excitatory inputs in dendrites is non-linear: multiple excitatory inputs can produce a local depolarization departing from the arithmetic sum of each input's response taken separately. If this depolarization is bigger than the arithmetic sum, the dendrite is spiking; if the depolarization is smaller, the dendrite is saturating. Decomposing a dendritic tree into independent dendritic spiking units greatly extends its computational capacity, as the neuron then maps onto a two layer neural network, enabling it to compute linearly non-separable Boolean functions (lnBFs). How can these lnBFs be implemented by dendritic architectures in practise? And can saturating dendrites equally expand computational capacity? To adress these questions we use a binary neuron model and Boolean algebra. First, we confirm that spiking dendrites enable a neuron to compute lnBFs using an architecture based on the disjunctive normal form (DNF). Second, we prove that saturating dendrites as well as spiking dendrites also enable a neuron to compute lnBFs using an architecture based on the conjunctive normal form (CNF). Contrary to the DNF-based architecture, a CNF-based architecture leads to a dendritic unit tuning that does not imply the neuron tuning, as has been observed experimentally. Third, we show that one cannot use a DNF-based architecture with saturating dendrites. Consequently, we show that an important family of lnBFs implemented with a CNF-architecture can require an exponential number of saturating dendritic units, whereas the same family implemented with either a DNF-architecture or a CNF-architecture always require a linear number of spiking dendritic unit. This minimization could explain why a neuron spends energetic resources to make its dendrites spike.
Persistent Homology for Learning Densities with Bounded Support,We present a novel method for learning densities with bounded support which enables us to incorporate `hard' topological constraints. In particular, we show how emerging techniques from computational algebraic topology and the notion of Persistent Homology can be combined with kernel based  methods from Machine Learning for the purpose of density estimation. The proposed formalism facilitates learning of models with bounded support in a principled way, and -- by incorporating Persistent Homology techniques in our approach -- we are able to encode algebraic-topological constraints which are not addressed in current state-of the art probabilistic models. We study the behaviour of our method on two synthetic examples for various sample sizes and exemplify the benefits of the proposed approach on a real-world data-set by learning a motion model for a racecar. We show how to learn a model which respects the underlying topological structure of the racetrack, constraining the trajectories of the car.
MAP Inference in Chains using Column Generation,Linear chains and trees are basic building blocks in many applications of graphical models.  Although exact inference in these models can be performed by dynamic programming, this computation can still be prohibitively expensive with non-trivial target variable domain sizes due to the quadratic dependence on this size.  Standard message-passing algorithms for these problems are inefficient because they compute scores on hypotheses for which there is strong negative local evidence.  For this reason there has been significant previous interest in beam search and its variants; however, these methods provide only approximate inference.  This paper presents new efficient exact inference algorithms based on the combination of it column generation and pre-computed bounds on the model's cost structure.  Improving worst-case performance is impossible. However, our method substantially speeds real-world, typical-case inference in chains and trees.  Experiments show our method to be twice as fast as exact Viterbi for Wall Street Journal part-of-speech tagging and over thirteen times faster for a joint part-of-speed and named-entity-recognition task.  Our algorithm is also extendable to new techniques for approximate inference, to faster two-best inference, and new opportunities for connections between inference and learning.
Isotropic Hashing,Most existing hashing methods adopt some projection functions to project the original data into several dimensions of real values, and then each of these projected dimensions is quantized into one bit (zero or one) by thresholding. Typically, the variances of different projected dimensions are different for existing projection functions such as principal component analysis (PCA). Using the same number of bits for different projected dimensions is unreasonable because larger-variance dimensions will carry more information. Although this viewpoint has been widely accepted by many researchers, it is still not verified by either theory or experiment because no methods have been proposed to find a projection with equal variances for different dimensions. In this paper, we propose a novel method, called isotropic hashing (IsoHash), to learn projection functions which can produce projected dimensions with isotropic variances (equal variances). Experimental results on real data sets show that IsoHash can outperform its counterpart with different variances for different dimensions, which verifies the viewpoint that projections with isotropic variances will be better than those with anisotropic variances.
Generalization Bounds for Domain Adaptation,In this paper, we provide a new framework to study the generalization bound of the learning process for domain adaptation. Without loss of generality, we consider two kinds of representative domain adaptation settings: one is domain adaptation with multiple sources and the other is domain adaptation combining source and target data. In particular, we introduce two quantities that capture the inherent characteristics of domains. For either kind of domain adaptation, based on the two quantities, we then develop the specific Hoeffding-type deviation inequality and symmetrization inequality to achieve the corresponding generalization bound based on the uniform entropy number. By using the resultant generalization bound, we analyze the asymptotic convergence and the rate of convergence of the learning process for such kind of domain adaptation. Meanwhile, we discuss the factors that affect the asymptotic behavior of the learning process. The numerical experiments support our results.
Bayesian Probabilistic Co-Subspace Addition,For modeling data matrices, this paper introduces Probabilistic Co-Subspace Addition (PCSA) model by simultaneously capturing the dependent structures among both rows and columns. Briefly, PCSA assumes that each entry of a matrix is generated by the additive combination of the linear mappings of two features, which distribute in the row-wise and column-wise latent subspaces. Consequently, it captures the dependencies among entries intricately, and is able to model the non-Gaussian and heteroscedastic density. Variational inference is proposed on PCSA for  approximate Bayesian learning, where the updating for posteriors is formulated into the problem of solving Sylvester equations. Furthermore, PCSA is extended to tackling and filling missing values, to adapting its sparseness, and to modelling tensor data. In comparison with several state-of-art approaches, experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of Bayesian (sparse) PCSA on modeling matrix (tensor) data and filling missing values.
Sparse Approximate Manifolds for Differential Geometric MCMC,One of the enduring challenges in Markov chain Monte Carlo methodology is the development of proposal mechanisms to make moves distant from the current point, that are accepted with high probability and at low computational cost. The recent introduction of locally adaptive MCMC methods based on the natural underlying Riemannian geometry of such models goes some way to alleviating these problems for certain classes of models for which the metric tensor is analytically tractable, however computational efficiency is not assured due to the necessity of potentially high-dimensional matrix operations at each iteration. In this paper we firstly investigate a sampling-based approach for approximating the metric tensor and suggest a valid MCMC algorithm that extends the applicability of Riemannian Manifold MCMC methods to statistical models that do not admit an analytically computable metric tensor. Secondly, we show how the approximation scheme we consider naturally motivates the use of l1 regularisation to improve estimates and obtain a sparse approximate inverse of the metric, which enables stable and sparse approximations of the local geometry to be made. We demonstrate the application of this algorithm for inferring the parameters of a realistic system of ordinary differential equations using a biologically motivated robust student-t error model, for which the expected Fisher Information is analytically intractable.
Symbolic Dynamic Programming for Continuous State and Observation POMDPs,Partially-observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) provide a powerful model for real-world sequential decision-making problems. In recent years, point- based value iteration methods have proven to be extremely effective techniques for nding (approximately) optimal dynamic programming solutions to POMDPs when an initial set of belief states is known. However, no point-based work has provided exact point-based backups for both continuous state and observation spaces, which we tackle in this paper. Our key insight is that while there may be an innite number of possible observations, there are only a nite number of observation partitionings that are relevant for optimal decision-making when a nite, xed set of reachable belief states is known. To this end, we make two important contributions: (1) we show how previous exact symbolic dynamic pro- gramming solutions for continuous state MDPs can be generalized to continu- ous state POMDPs with discrete observations, and (2) we show how this solution can be further extended via recently developed symbolic methods to continuous state and observations to derive the minimal relevant observation partitioning for potentially correlated, multivariate observation spaces. We demonstrate proof-of- concept results on uni- and multi-variate state and observation steam plant control.
Learning visual motion in recurrent neural networks,We present a dynamic nonlinear generative model for visual motion based on a latent representation of binary-gated Gaussian variables. Trained on sequences of images, the model learns to represent different movement directions in different variables. We use an online approximate-inference scheme that can be mapped to the dynamics of networks of neurons. Probed with drifting grating stimuli and moving bars of light, neurons in the model show patterns of responses analogous to those of direction-selective simple cells in primary visual cortex. Most model neurons also show speed tuning and respond equally well to a range of motion directions and speeds aligned to the constraint line of their respective preferred speed. We show how these computations are enabled by a specific pattern of recurrent connections learned by the model.
Exponential Concentration for Mutual Information Estimation with Application to Forests,We prove a new exponential concentration inequality for a plug-in estimator of the Shannon mutual information. Previous results on mutual information estimation only bounded expected error. The advantage of having the exponential inequality is that, combined with the union bound, we can guarantee accurate estimators of the mutual information for many pairs of random variables simultaneously. As an application, we show how to use such a result to optimally estimate the density function and graph of a distribution which is Markov to a forest graph.
Tight Bounds on Redundancy and Distinguishability of Label-Invariant Distributions,The minimax KL-divergence of any distribution from all distributions in a given collection has several practical implications.  In compression, it is the least additional number of bits over the entropy needed in the worst case to encode the output of a distribution in the collection. In online estimation and learning, it is the lowest expected log-loss regret when guessing a sequence of random values. In hypothesis testing, it upper bounds the largest number of distinguishable distributions in the collection. Motivated by problems ranging from population estimation to text classification and speech recognition, several machine-learning and information-theory researchers have recently considered label-invariant distributions and properties of \iid-drawn samples. Using techniques that reveal and exploit the structure of these distributions, we improve on a sequence of previous works and show that the minimax KL-divergence of the collection of label-invariant distributions over length-$n$ \iid sequences is between $0.3\cdot n^{1/3}$ and $n^{1/3}\log^2n$.
A Divide-and-Conquer Method for Sparse Inverse Covariance Estimation,In this paper, we consider the $\ell_1$ regularized sparse inverse covariance matrix estimation problem with a very large number of variables. Even in the face of this high dimensionality, and with limited number of samples, recent work has shown this estimator to have strong statistical guarantees in recovering the true structure of the sparse inverse covariance matrix, or alternatively the underlying graph structure of the corresponding Gaussian Markov Random Field. Our proposed algorithm divides the problem into  smaller sub-problems, and uses the solutions of the sub-problems to build a good approximation for the original problem. We derive a bound on the distance of the approximate solution to the true solution. Based on this bound, we propose a clustering algorithm that attempts to minimize this bound, and in practice, is able to find effective partitions of the variables. We further use the approximate solution, i.e., solution resulting from solving the sub-problems,  as an initial point to solve the original problem, and achieve a much faster computational procedure.  As an example, a recent state-of-the-art method, QUIC requires 10 hours to solve a problem (with 10,000 nodes) that arises from a climate application, while our proposed algorithm, Divide and Conquer QUIC (DC-QUIC) only requires one hour to solve the problem.
Algorithms for Learning Markov Field Policies,We present a new graph-based approach for incorporating domain knowledge in reinforcement learning applications. The domain knowledge is given as a weighted graph, or a kernel matrix, that loosely indicates which states should have similar optimal actions. We first introduce a bias into the policy search process by deriving a distribution on policies such that policies that disagree with the provided graph have low probabilities. This distribution corresponds to a Markov Random Field. We then present a reinforcement and an apprenticeship learning algorithms for finding such policy distributions. We also illustrate the advantage of the proposed approach on three problems: swing-up cart-balancing with nonuniform and smooth frictions, gridworlds, and teaching a robot to grasp new objects.
Practical Bayesian Optimization of Machine Learning Algorithms,The use of machine learning algorithms frequently involves careful tuning of learning parameters and model hyperparameters. Unfortunately, this tuning is often a black art requiring expert experience, rules of thumb, or sometimes brute-force search. There is therefore great appeal for automatic approaches that can optimize the performance of any given learning algorithm to the problem at hand. In this work, we consider this problem through the framework of Bayesian optimization, in which a learning algorithms generalization performance is modeled as a sample from a Gaussian process (GP). We show that certain choices for the nature of the GP, such as the type of kernel and the treatment of its hyperparameters, can play a crucial role in obtaining a good optimizer that can achieve expert-level performance. We describe new algorithms that take into account the variable cost (duration) of learning algorithm experiments and that can leverage the presence of multiple cores for parallel experimentation. We show that these proposed algorithms improve on previous automatic procedures and can reach or surpass human expert-level optimization for many algorithms including Latent Dirichlet Allocation, Structured SVMs and convolutional neural networks.
Feature Clustering for Accelerating Parallel Coordinate Descent,Large scale $\ell_1$-regularized loss minimization problems arise in numerous applications such as compressed sensing and high dimensional supervised learning, including classification and regression problems.  High performance algorithms and implementations are critical to efficiently solving these problems.  Building upon previous work on coordinate descent algorithms for $\ell_1$ regularized problems, we introduce a novel family of algorithms called block-greedy coordinate descent that includes, as special cases, several existing algorithms such as SCD, Greedy CD, Shotgun, and Thread-greedy.  We give a unified convergence analysis for the family of block-greedy algorithms.  The analysis suggests that block-greedy coordinate descent can better exploit parallelism if features are clustered so that the maximum inner product between features in different blocks is small.  Our theoretical convergence analysis is supported with experimental results using data from diverse real-world applications.  We hope that algorithmic approaches and convergence analysis we provide will not only advance the field, but will also encourage researchers to systematically explore the design space of algorithms for solving large-scale $\ell_1$-regularization problems.
Efficient Monte Carlo Counterfactual Regret Minimization in Games with Many Player Actions,Counterfactual Regret Minimization (CFR) is a popular, iterative algorithm for computing strategies in extensive-form games. The Monte Carlo CFR (MCCFR) variants reduce the per iteration time cost of CFR by traversing a sampled portion of the tree. The previous most effective instances of MCCFR can still be very slow in games with many player actions since they sample every action for a given player. In this paper, we present a new MCCFR algorithm, Average Strategy Sampling (AS), that samples a subset of the player's actions according to the player's average strategy. Our new algorithm is inspired by a new, tighter bound on the number of iterations required by CFR to converge to a given solution quality. In addition, we prove a similar, tighter bound for AS and other popular MCCFR variants. Finally, we validate our work by demonstrating that AS converges faster than previous MCCFR algorithms in both no-limit poker and Bluff.
Ensemble weighted kernel estimators for multivariate entropy estimation,The problem of estimation of entropy functionals of probability densities has received much attention in the information theory, machine learning and statistics communities. Kernel density plug-in estimators are simple, easy to implement and widely used for estimation of entropy. However, kernel plug-in estimators suffer from the curse of dimensionality, wherein the MSE rate of convergence is glacially slow - of order  $O(T^{-{\gamma}/{d}})$, where $T$ is the number of samples, and $\gamma>0$ is a rate parameter. In this paper, it is shown that for sufficiently smooth densities, an ensemble of kernel plug-in estimators can be combined via a weighted convex combination, such that the resulting weighted estimator has a superior parametric MSE rate of convergence of order $O(T^{-1})$. Furthermore, it is shown that these optimal weights can be determined by solving a convex optimization problem which does not require training data or knowledge of the underlying density, and therefore can be performed offline. This novel result is remarkable in that, while each of the individual kernel plug-in estimators belonging to the ensemble suffer from the curse of dimensionality, by appropriate ensemble averaging we can achieve parametric convergence rates.
Why MCA? Nonlinear Spike-and-slab Sparse Coding for Neurally Plausible Image Encoding,Modelling natural images with sparse coding (SC) has faced two main challenges: flexibly representing varying pixel intensities and realistically representing low-level components, e.g. edges. This paper proposes a novel multiple-cause generative model of low-level image statistics that generalizes the standard SC model in two crucial points: (1) it uses a spike-and-slab prior distribution for a more realistic representation of component absence/intensity, and (2) the model uses the highly nonlinear combination rule of maximal causes analysis (MCA). The major challenge is parameter optimization because a model with either (1) or (2) results in a strongly multimodal posterior. We show for the first time that a model combining both improvements can be trained efficiently while retaining the rich structure of the posterior. We design an exact piecewise Gibbs sampling method and combine this with a variational method based on preselection of latent dimensions. This combined training scheme tackles both analytical and computational intractability and enables application of the model to a large number of observed and hidden dimensions. Applying the model to image patches we study the optimal encoding of images by simple cells in V1 and compare the model's predictions with in vivo neural recordings. In contrast to standard SC, we find that the optimal prior favors asymmetric, bimodal, and sparse activity of simple cells. Testing our model for consistency we find that the average posterior is approximately equal to the prior. Furthermore, due to the nonlinearity, the model predicts a large number of globular receptive fields (RFs), another significant difference from standard SC. The inferred prior and the high proportion of predicted globular fields make the model more consistent with neural data than previous SC models, suggesting closer tuning of simple cells to visual stimuli than has been predicted until now.
Multiresolution analysis on the symmetric group,There is no generally accepted way to define wavelets on permutations. We address this issue by introducing the notion of coset based multiresolution analysis (CMRA) on the symmetric group; find the corresponding wavelet functions; and describe a fast wavelet transform of O(n^p) complexity with small p for sparse signals (in contrast to the O(n^q n!) complexity typical of FFTs). We discuss potential applications in ranking, sparse approximation, and multi-object tracking.
Deep Neural Networks Segment Neuronal Membranes in Electron Microscopy Images,We address a central problem of neuroanatomy, namely, the automatic segmentation of neuronal structures  depicted in stacks of electron microscopy (EM) images. This is necessary to efficiently map 3D brain structure and connectivity. To segment {\em biological} neuron membranes, we use a special type of deep {\em artificial} neural network as a pixel classifier. The label of each pixel (membrane or non-membrane) is predicted from raw pixel values in a square window centered on it. The input layer maps each window pixel to a neuron. It is followed by a succession of convolutional and max-pooling layers which preserve 2D information and extract features with increasing levels of abstraction. The output layer produces a calibrated probability for each class. The classifier is trained by plain gradient descent on a $512 \times 512 \times 30$ stack with known ground truth, and tested on a stack of the same  size (ground truth unknown to the authors) by the organizers of the ISBI 2012 EM Segmentation Challenge.  Even without problem-specific post-processing, our approach outperforms competing techniques by a large margin in all three considered metrics, i.e. \emph{rand error}, \emph{warping error} and \emph{pixel error}.  For pixel error, our approach is the only one outperforming a second human observer.
Action-Model Based Multi-agent Plan Recognition,Multi-Agent Plan Recognition (MAPR) aims to recognize dynamic team structures and team behaviors from the observed team traces (activity sequences) of a set of intelligent agents. Previous MAPR approaches required a library of team activity sequences (team plans) be given as input. However, collecting a library of team plans to ensure adequate coverage is often difficult and costly. In this paper, we relax this constraint, so that team plans are not required to be provided beforehand. We assume instead that a set of action models are available. Such models are often already created to describe domain physics; i.e., the  preconditions and effects of effects actions. We propose a novel approach for recognizing multi-agent team plans based on such action models rather than libraries of team plans. We encode the resulting MAPR problem as a \emph{satisfiability problem} and solve the problem using a state-of-the-art weighted MAX-SAT solver. Our approach also allows for incompleteness in the observed plan traces. Our empirical studies demonstrate that our algorithm is both effective and efficient in comparison to state-of-the-art MAPR methods based on plan libraries.
Meta-Gaussian Information Bottleneck,We present a reformulation of the information bottleneck (IB) problem in terms of copula, using the equivalence between mutual information and negative copula  entropy. Focusing on the Gaussian copula we extend the analytical IB solution available for the multivariate Gaussian case to distributions with a Gaussian dependence structure but arbitrary marginal densities, also called meta-Gaussian distributions. This opens new possibles applications of IB to continuous data and provides a solution more robust to outliers.
Coding efficiency and detectability of rate fluctuations with non-Poisson neuronal firing,Statistical features of neuronal spike trains are known to be non-Poisson. Here, we investigate the extent to which the non-Poissonian feature affects the efficiency of transmitting information on fluctuating firing rates. For this purpose, we introduce the Kullbuck-Leibler (KL) divergence as a measure of the efficiency of information encoding, and assume that spike trains are generated by time-rescaled renewal processes. We show that the KL divergence determines the lower bound of the degree of rate fluctuations below which the temporal variation of the firing rates is undetectable from sparse data. We also show that the KL divergence, as well as the lower bound, depends not only on the variability of spikes in terms of the coefficient of variation, but also significantly on the higher-order moments of interspike interval (ISI) distributions. We examine three specific models that are commonly used for describing the stochastic nature of spikes (the gamma, inverse Gaussian (IG) and lognormal ISI distributions), and find that the time-rescaled renewal process with the IG distribution achieves the largest KL divergence, followed by the lognormal and gamma distributions.
Wavelet based multi-scale shape features on arbitrary surfaces for cortical thickness discrimination,Hypothesis testing on signals dened on surfaces (such as the cortical surface) is a fundamental component of a variety of studies in Neuroscience. The goal here is to identify regions that exhibit changes as a function of the clinical condition under study. As the clinical questions of interest move towards identifying very early signs of diseases, the corresponding statistical differences at the group level invariably become weaker and increasingly hard to identify. Indeed, after a multiple comparisons correction is adopted (to account for correlated statistical tests over all surface points), very few regions may survive. In contrast to hypothesis tests on point-wise measurements, in this paper, we make the case for performing statistical analysis on multi-scale shape descriptors that characterize the local topological context of the signal around each surface vertex. Our descriptors are based on recent results from harmonic analysis, that show how wavelet theory extends to non-Euclidean settings (i.e., irregular weighted graphs). We provide strong evidence that these descriptors successfully pick up group-wise differences, where traditional methods either fail or yield unsatisfactory results. Other than this primary application, we show how the framework allows performing cortical surface smoothing in the native space without mappint to a unit sphere.
A Nonparametric Conjugate Prior Distribution for the Maximizing Argument of a Noisy Function,We propose a novel Bayesian approach to solve stochastic optimization problems that involve nding extrema of noisy, nonlinear functions. Previous work has focused on representing possible functions explicitly, which leads to a two-step procedure of rst, doing inference over the function space and second, nding the extrema of these functions. Here we skip the representation step and directly model the distribution over extrema. To this end, we devise a non-parametric conjugate prior where the natural parameter corresponds to a given kernel function and the sufcient statistic is composed of the observed function values. The resulting posterior distribution directly captures the uncertainty over the maximum of the unknown function.
Density-Difference Estimation,We address the problem of estimating the difference between two probability densities. A naive approach  is a two-step procedure of first estimating two densities separately and then computing their difference. However, such a two-step procedure does not necessarily work well because the first step is performed without regard to the second step and thus a small estimation error incurred in the first stage can cause a big error in the second stage. In this paper, we propose a single-shot procedure  for directly estimating the density difference without separately estimating two densities. We derive a non-parametric finite-sample error bound for the proposed single-shot density-difference estimator and show that it achieves the optimal convergence rate. We then show how the proposed density-difference estimator can be utilized in L2-distance approximation. Finally, we experimentally demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed method in robust distribution comparison such as class-prior estimation and change-point detection.
Scalable nonconvex inexact proximal splitting,We study large-scale, nonsmooth, nonconconvex optimization problems. In particular, we focus on nonconvex problems with \emph{composite} objectives. This class of problems includes the extensively studied convex, composite objective problems as a special case. To tackle composite nonconvex problems, we introduce a powerful new framework based on asymptotically \emph{nonvanishing} errors, avoiding the common convenient assumption of eventually vanishing errors. Within our framework we derive both batch and incremental nonconvex proximal splitting algorithms. To our knowledge, our framework is first to develop and analyze incremental \emph{nonconvex} proximal-splitting algorithms, even if we disregard the ability to handle nonvanishing errors. We illustrate our theoretical framework by showing how it applies to difficult large-scale, nonsmooth, and nonconvex problems.
A Scalable CUR Matrix Decomposition Algorithm: Lower Time Complexity and Tighter Bound,The CUR matrix decomposition is an important extension of Nystrm approximation to a general matrix. It approximates any data matrix in terms of a small number of its columns and rows. In this paper we propose a novel randomized CUR algorithm with an expected relative-error bound. The proposed algorithm has the advantages over the existing relative-error CUR algorithms that it possesses tighter theoretical bound and lower time complexity, and that it can avoid maintaining the whole data matrix in main memory. Finally, experiments on several real-world datasets demonstrate significant improvement over the existing relative-error algorithms.
Learning the Dependency Structure of Latent Factors,In this paper, we study latent factor models with the dependency structure in the latent space.  We propose a general learning framework which induces sparsity on the undirected graphical model imposed on the vector of latent factors. A novel latent factor model SLFA is then proposed as a matrix factorization problem with a special regularization term that encourages collaborative reconstruction. The main benefit (novelty) of the model is that we can simultaneously learn the lower-dimensional representation for data and model the pairwise relationships between latent factors explicitly. An on-line learning algorithm is devised to make the model feasible for large-scale learning problems. Experimental results on two synthetic data and two real-world data sets demonstrate that pairwise relationships and latent factors learned by our model provide a more structured way of exploring high-dimensional data,  and the learned representations achieve the state-of-the-art classification performance.
3D Gaze Concurrences from Head-mounted Cameras,A gaze concurrence is a point in 3D where the gaze directions of two or more people intersect. It is a strong indicator of social saliency because the attention of the participating group is focused on that point. In scenes occupied by large groups of people, multiple concurrences may occur and transition over time. In this paper, we present a method to locate multiple gaze concurrences that occur in a social scene from videos taken by head-mounted cameras. We model the gaze as a cone-shaped distribution emanating from the center of the eyes, capturing the variation of eye-in-head motion. We calibrate the parameters of this distribution by exploiting the fixed relationship between the primary gaze ray and the head-mounted camera pose. The resulting gaze model enables us to build a social saliency field in 3D. We estimate the number and 3D locations of the gaze concurrences via provably convergent mode-seeking in the social saliency field. Our algorithm is applied to reconstruct multiple gaze concurrences in several real world scenes and evaluated quantitatively against motion-captured ground truth.
How They Vote: Issue-Adjusted Models of Legislative Behavior,We develop a probabilistic model of legislative data that uses the text of the bills to uncover lawmakers' positions on specific political issues.  Our model can be used to explore how a lawmaker's voting patterns deviate from what is expected and how that deviation depends on what is being voted on. We derive approximate posterior inference algorithms based on variational methods. Across 12 years of legislative data, we demonstrate both improvement in heldout predictive performance and the model's utility in interpreting an inherently multi-dimensional space.
Efficient Reinforcement Learning for High Dimensional Linear Quadratic Systems,We study the problem of adaptive control of a high dimensional linear quadratic (LQ) system.  Previous work established the asymptotic convergence to an optimal controller for various adaptive control schemes. More recently, an asymptotic regret bound of $\tilde{O}(\sqrt{T})$ was shown for $T \gg p$ where $p$ is the dimension of the state space. In this work we consider the case where the matrices describing the dynamic of the LQ system are sparse and their dimensions are large. We present an adaptive control scheme that for $p \gg 1$ and $T \gg \polylog(p)$ achieves a regret bound of $\tilde{O}(p \sqrt{T})$. In particular, our algorithm has an average cost of $(1+\eps)$ times the optimum cost after $T = \polylog(p) O(1/\eps^2)$. This is in comparison to previous work on the dense dynamics where the algorithm needs $\Omega(p)$ samples before it can estimate the unknown dynamic with any significant accuracy. We believe our result has prominent applications in the emerging area of computational advertising, in particular targeted online advertising and advertising in social networks.
Angular Quantization based Binary Codes for Fast Similarity Search,This paper focuses on the problem of learning binary embeddings for efficient retrieval of high-dimensional non-negative data. Such data typically arises in a large number of vision and text applications where counts or frequencies are used as features.  Also, cosine distance is commonly used as a measure of dissimilarity between such vectors. In this work, we introduce a novel spherical quantization scheme to generate binary embedding of such data and analyze its properties. The number of quantization landmarks in this scheme grows exponentially with data dimensionality resulting in low-distortion quantization.  We propose a very efficient method for computing the binary embedding using such large number of landmarks. Further, a linear transformation is learned to minimize the quantization error by adapting the method to the input data resulting in improved embedding.  Experiments on image and text retrieval applications show superior performance of the proposed method over other existing state-of-the-art methods.
Efficient coding connects prior and likelihood function in perceptual Bayesian inference,A common challenge for Bayesian approaches in modeling perceptual behavior is the fact that the two fundamental   components of a Bayesian model, the prior distribution and the likelihood function, are formally unconstrained. Here   we argue that a neural system that emulates Bayesian inference naturally imposes constraints by way of how it   represents sensory information in populations of neurons. More specifically, we propose an efficient encoding   principle that constrains both the likelihood and the prior based on low-level environmental statistics. The resulting   Bayesian estimates can show biases away from the peaks of a prior distribution, a behavior seemingly at odds   with the traditional view of Bayesian estimates yet one that has indeed been reported in human perception of visual orientation. We demonstrate that our framework correctly predicts these biases, and show   that the efficient encoding characteristics of the model neural population matches the reported orientation tuning   characteristics of neurons in primary visual cortex. Our results suggest that efficient coding can be a promising   hypothesis in constraining neural implementations of Bayesian inference.
Controlled Recognition Bounds for Visual Learning and Exploration,We describe the tradeoff between the performance in a visual recognition problem and the control authority that the agent can exercise on the sensing process. We focus on the problem of visual search of an object in an otherwise known and static scene, propose a measure of control authority, and relate it to the expected risk and its proxy (conditional entropy of the posterior density). We show this analytically, as well as empirically by simulation using the simplest known model that captures the phenomenology of image formation, including scaling and occlusions. We show that a passive agent given a training set can provide no guarantees on performance beyond what is afforded by the priors, and that an omnipotent agent, capable of infinite control authority, can achieve arbitrarily good performance (asymptotically).
Online L1-Dictionary Learning with Application to Novel Document Detection,Given their pervasive use, social media, such as Twitter, have become a leading source of breaking news. A key task in the automated identification of such news is the detection of novel documents from a voluminous stream of text documents in a scalable manner. Motivated by this challenge, we introduce the problem of online L1-dictionary learning where unlike traditional dictionary learning, which uses squared loss, the L1-penalty is used for measuring the reconstruction error. We present an efficient online algorithm for this problem based on alternating directions method of multipliers, and establish a sublinear regret bound for this algorithm. Empirical results on news-stream and Twitter data, shows that this online L1-dictionary learning algorithm for novel document detection gives more than an order of magnitude speedup over the previously known batch algorithm, without any significant loss in quality of results. Our algorithm for online L1-dictionary learning could be of independent interest.
Approximate Message Passing with Consistent Parameter Estimation and Applications to Sparse Learning,We consider the estimation of an i.i.d.\ vector $\xbf \in \R^n$ from measurements $\ybf \in \R^m$ obtained by a general cascade model consisting of a known linear transform followed by a probabilistic componentwise (possibly nonlinear) measurement channel. We present a method, called adaptive generalized approximate message passing (Adaptive GAMP), that enables joint learning of the statistics of the prior and measurement channel along with estimation of the unknown vector $\xbf$. The proposed algorithm is a generalization of a recently-developed method by Vila and Schniter that uses expectation-maximization (EM) iterations where the posteriors in the E-steps are computed via approximate message passing. The techniques can be applied to a large class of learning problems including the learning of sparse priors in compressed sensing or identification of linear-nonlinear cascade models in dynamical systems and neural spiking processes.  We prove that for large i.i.d.\ Gaussian transform matrices the asymptotic componentwise behavior of the adaptive GAMP algorithm is predicted by a simple set of scalar state evolution equations.  This analysis shows that the adaptive GAMP method can yield asymptotically consistent parameter estimates, which implies that the algorithm achieves a reconstruction quality equivalent to the oracle algorithm that knows the correct parameter values.  The adaptive GAMP methodology thus provides a systematic, general and computationally efficient method applicable to a large range of complex linear-nonlinear models with provable guarantees.
Learning the Architecture of Sum-Product Networks Using Clustering on Variables,The sum-product network (SPN) is a recently-proposed deep model consisting of a network of sum and product nodes, and has been shown to be competitive with state-of-the-art deep models on certain difficult tasks such as image completion. Designing an SPN network architecture that is suitable for the task at hand is an open question. We propose an algorithm for learning the SPN architecture from data. The idea is to cluster variables (as opposed to data instances) in order to identify variable subsets that strongly interact with one another. Nodes in the SPN network are then allocated towards explaining these interactions. Experimental evidence shows that learning the SPN architecture significantly improves its performance compared to using a previously-proposed static architecture.
A System for Predicting Action Content On-Line and in Real Time before Action Onset in Humans  an Intracranial Study,The ability to predict action content from neural signals in real time before action onset has been long sought in the neuroscientific study of decision-making, agency and volition. On-line real-time (ORT) prediction is important for understanding the relation between neural correlates of decision-making and conscious, voluntary action. Here, epilepsy patients, implanted with intracranial depth microelectrodes or subdural grid electrodes for clinical purposes, participated in a matching-pennies game against either the experimenter or a computer. In each trial, subjects were given a 5s countdown, after which they had to raise their left or right hand immediately as the go signal appeared on a computer screen. They won a fixed amount of money if they raised a different hand than their opponent and lost that amount otherwise. The working hypothesis of this experiment was that neural precursors of the subjects decisions precede action onset and potentially also the awareness of the decision to move, and that these signals could be detected in intracranial local field potentials (LFP). We found that low-frequency LFP signals from a combination of 10 channels, especially bilateral anterior cingulate cortex and supplementary motor area, were predictive of the intended left-/right-hand movements before the onset of the go signal. Our ORT system predicted which hand the patient would raise 0.5s before the go signal with 683% accuracy in two patients. Based on these results, we constructed an ORT system that tracked up to 30 channels simultaneously, and tested it on retrospective data from 6 patients. On average, we could predict the correct hand choice in 80% of the trials, which rose to 90% correct if we let the system drop about 1/3 of the trials on which it was less confident. Our system demonstrates  for the first time  the feasibility of accurately predicting a binary action in real time for patients with intracranial recordings, well before the action occurs.
Burn-in, bias, and the rationality of anchoring,Bayesian inference provides a unifying framework for addressing problems in machine learning, artificial intelligence, and robotics, as well as the problems facing the human mind. Unfortunately, exact Bayesian inference is intractable in all but the simplest models. Therefore minds and machines have to approximate Bayesian inference. Approximate inference algorithms can achieve a wide range of time-accuracy tradeoffs, but what is the optimal tradeoff? We investigate time-accuracy tradeoffs using the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm as a metaphor for the mind's inference algorithm(s). We find that reasonably accurate decisions are possible long before the Markov chain has converged to the posterior distribution, i.e. during the period known as burn-in. Therefore the strategy that is optimal subject to the mind's bounded processing speed and opportunity costs may perform so few iterations that the resulting samples are biased towards the initial value. The resulting cognitive process model provides a rational basis for the anchoring-and-adjustment heuristic. The model's quantitative predictions are tested against published data on anchoring in numerical estimation tasks. Our theoretical and empirical results suggest that the anchoring bias is consistent with approximate Bayesian inference.
A P300 BCI for the Masses: Prior Information Enables Instant Unsupervised Spelling,The usability of Brain Computer Interfaces (BCI) based on the P300 speller is severely hindered by the need for long training times and many repetitions of the same stimulus. In this contribution we introduce a set of unsupervised hierarchical probabilistic models that tackle both problems simultaneously by incorporating prior knowledge from two sources: information from other training subjects (through transfer learning) and information about the words being spelled (through language models). We show, that due to this prior knowledge, the performance of the unsupervised models parallels and in some cases even surpasses that of supervised models, while eliminating the tedious training session.
A lattice filter model of the visual pathway,Early stages of visual processing are thought to decorrelate, or whiten, the incoming temporally varying signals. Because the typical correlation time of natural stimuli, as well as the extent of temporal receptive fields of lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) neurons, is much greater than neuronal time constants, such decorrelation must be done in stages combining contributions of multiple neurons. We propose to model temporal decorrelation in the visual pathway with the lattice filter, a signal processing device for stage-wise decorrelation of temporal signals. The stage-wise architecture of the lattice filter maps naturally onto the visual pathway (photoreceptors -> bipolar cells -> retinal ganglion cells -> LGN) and its filter weights can be learned using Hebbian rules in a stage-wise sequential manner. Moreover, predictions of neural activity from the lattice filter model are consistent with physiological measurements in LGN neurons and fruit fly second-order visual neurons. Therefore, the lattice filter model is a useful abstraction that may help unravel visual system function.
Analog readout for optical reservoir computers,Reservoir computing is a new, powerful and flexible machine learning technique that is easily implemented in hardware. Recently, by using a time-multiplexed architecture, hardware reservoir computers have reached performance comparable to digital implementations. Operating speeds allowing for real time information operation have been reached using optoelectronic systems. At present the main performance bottleneck is the readout layer which uses slow, digital postprocessing. We have designed an analog readout suitable for time-multiplexed optoelectronic reservoir computers, capable of working in real time. The readout has been built and tested experimentally on a standard benchmark task. Its performance is better than non-reservoir methods, with ample room for further improvement. The present work thereby overcomes one of the major limitations for the future development of hardware reservoir computers.
Towards a learning-theoretic analysis of spike-timing dependent plasticity,This paper suggests a learning-theoretic perspective on how synaptic plasticity benefits global brain functioning. We introduce a model, the selectron, that (i) arises as the fast time constant limit of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons equipped with spiking timing dependent plasticity (STDP) and (ii) is amenable to theoretical analysis. We show that the selectron encodes reward estimates into spikes and that an error bound on spikes is controlled by a spiking margin and the sum of synaptic weights. Moreover, the efficacy of spikes (their usefulness to other reward maximizing selectrons) also depends on total synaptic strength. Finally, based on our analysis, we propose a regularized version of STDP, and show the regularization improves the robustness of neuronal learning when faced with multiple stimuli.
Neurally Plausible Reinforcement Learning of Working Memory Tasks,A key function of brains is undoubtedly the abstraction and maintenance of information from the environment for later use. Neurons in association cortex play an important role in this process: during learning these neurons become tuned to relevant features and represent the information that is required later as a persistent elevation of their activity. It is however not well known how these neurons acquire their task-relevant tuning. Here we introduce a biologically plausible learning scheme that explains how neurons become selective for relevant information when animals learn by trial and error. We propose that the action selection stage feeds back attentional signals to earlier processing levels. These feedback signals interact with feedforward signals to form synaptic tags at those connections that are responsible for the stimulus-response mapping. A globally released neuromodulatory signal interacts with these tagged synapses to determine the sign and strength of plasticity. The learning scheme is generic because it can train networks in different tasks, simply by varying inputs and rewards. It explains how neurons in association cortex learn to (1) temporarily store task-relevant information in non-linear stimulus-response mapping tasks and (2) learn to optimally integrate probabilistic evidence for perceptual decision making.
Bayesian Nonparametric Maximum Margin Matrix Factorization for Collaborative Prediction,We present a probabilistic formulation to max-margin matrix factorization and build accordingly an infinite nonparametric Bayesian model to automatically resolve the unknown number of latent factors. Our work demonstrates a successful example that integrates Bayesian nonparametrics and max-margin learning, which are conventionally two separate paradigms and enjoy complementary advantages. We develop an efficient variational learning algorithm for posterior inference, and our extensive empirical studies on large-scale MovieLens and EachMovie data sets appear to demonstrate the advantages inherited from both max-margin matrix factorization and Bayesian nonparametrics.
Fusion with Diffusion for Robust Visual Tracking,A weighted graph is used as an underlying structure of many algorithms like semi-supervised learning and spectral clustering. The edge weights are usually deter-mined by a single similarity measure, but it often hard if not impossible to capture all relevant aspects of similarity when using a single similarity measure. In par-ticular, in the case of visual object matching it is beneficial to integrate different similarity measures that focus on different visual representations. In this paper, a novel approach to integrate multiple similarity measures is pro-posed. First pairs of similarity measures are combined with a diffusion process on their tensor product graph (TPG). Hence the diffused similarity of each pair of ob-jects becomes a function of joint diffusion of the two original similarities, which in turn depends on the neighborhood structure of the TPG. We call this process Fusion with Diffusion (FD). However, a higher order graph like the TPG usually means significant increase in time complexity. This is not the case in the proposed approach. A key feature of our approach is that the time complexity of the dif-fusion on the TPG is the same as the diffusion process on each of the original graphs, Moreover, it is not necessary to explicitly construct the TPG in our frame-work. Finally all diffused pairs of similarity measures are combined as a weighted sum. We demonstrate the advantages of the proposed approach on the task of visual tracking, where different aspects of the appearance similarity between the target object in frame t and target object candidates in frame t+1 are integrated. The obtained method is tested on several challenge video sequences and the experimental results show that it outperforms state-of-the-art tracking methods.
The Coloured Noise Expansion and Parameter Estimation of Diffusion Processes,Stochastic differential equations (SDE) are a natural tool for modelling systems that are inherently noisy or contain uncertainties that can be modelled as stochastic processes. Crucial to the process of using SDE to build mathematical models is the ability to estimate parameters of those models from observed data. Over the past few decades, significant progress has been made on this problem, but we are still far from having a definitive solution. We describe a novel method of approximating a diffusion process that we show to be useful in Markov chain Monte-Carlo (MCMC) inference algorithms. We take the white noise that drives a diffusion process and decompose it into two terms. The first is a coloured noise term that can be deterministically controlled by a set of auxilliary variables. The second term is small and enables us to form a linear Gaussian small noise approximation. The decomposition allows us to take a diffusion process of interest and cast it in a form that is amenable to sampling by MCMC methods. We explain why many state-of-the-art inference methods fail on highly nonlinear inference problems. We demonstrate experimentally that our method performs well in such situations. Our results show that this method is a promising new tool for use in inference and parameter estimation problems.
The Time-Marginalized Coalescent Prior for Hierarchical Clustering,We introduce a new prior for use in Nonparametric Bayesian Hierarchical Clustering. The prior is constructed by marginalizing out the time information of Kingmans coalescent, providing a prior over tree structures which we call the Time-Marginalized Coalescent (TMC). This allows for models which factorize the tree structure and times, providing two benefits: more flexible priors may be constructed and more efficient Gibbs type inference can be used. We demonstrate this on an example model for density estimation and show the TMC achieves competitive experimental results.
Mixing Properties of Conditional Markov Chains with Unbounded Feature Functions,Conditional Markov Chains (also known as Linear-Chain Conditional Random Fields  in the literature) are a versatile class of discriminative models for the distribution of a sequence of hidden states conditional on a sequence of observable variables. Large-sample properties of Conditional Markov Chains have been first studied by Sinn and Poupart [1]. The paper extends this work in two directions: first, mixing properties of models with unbounded feature functions are being established; second, necessary conditions for model identifiability and the uniqueness of maximum likelihood estimates are being given.
The representer theorem for Hilbert spaces: a necessary and sufficient condition,The representer theorem is a property that lies at the foundation of regularization theory and kernel methods. A class of regularization functionals is said to admit a linear representer theorem if every member of the class admits minimizers that lie in the finite dimensional subspace spanned by the representers of the data. A recent characterization states that certain classes of regularization functionals with differentiable regularization term admit a linear representer theorem for any choice of the data if and only if the regularization term is a radial nondecreasing function. In this paper, we extend such result by weakening the assumptions on the regularization term. In particular, the main result of this paper implies that, for a sufficiently large family of regularization functionals, radial nondecreasing functions are the only lower semicontinuous regularization terms that guarantee existence of a representer theorem for any choice of the data.
Dip-means: an incremental clustering method for estimating the number of clusters,Learning the number of clusters is a key problem in data clustering. We present dip-means, a novel robust incremental method to learn the number of data clusters that may be used as a wrapper around any iterative clustering algorithm of the k-means family. In contrast to many popular methods which make assumptions about the underlying cluster distributions, dip-means only assumes a fundamental cluster property: each cluster to admit a unimodal distribution. The proposed algorithm considers each cluster member as a ''viewer'' and applies a univariate statistic hypothesis test for unimodality (dip-test) on the distribution of the distances between the viewer and the cluster members. Two important advantages are: i) the unimodality test is applied on univariate distance vectors, ii) it can be directly applied with kernel-based methods, since only the pairwise distances are involved in the computations. Experimental results on artificial and real datasets indicate the effectiveness of our method and its superiority over analogous approaches.
Learning curves for multi-task Gaussian process regression,We study the average case performance of multi-task Gaussian process (GP)   regression as captured in the learning curve, i.e.\ the average Bayes error   for a chosen task versus the total number of examples $n$ for all   tasks. For GP covariances that are the product of an   input-dependent covariance function and a free-form inter-task   covariance matrix, we   show that accurate approximations for the learning curve can be   obtained for an arbitrary number of tasks $T$.  We use   these to study the asymptotic learning behaviour for large   $n$. Surprisingly, multi-task learning can be asymptotically essentially   useless: examples from other tasks only help when the   degree of inter-task correlation, $\rho$, is near its maximal value   $\rho=1$. This effect is most extreme for learning of smooth target   functions as described by e.g.\ squared exponential kernels. We also   demonstrate that when learning {\em many} tasks, the learning curves   separate into an initial phase, where the Bayes error on each task   is reduced down to a plateau value by ``collective learning''    even though most tasks have not seen examples,   and a final decay that occurs only once the number of examples is   proportional to the number of tasks.
Nonconvex Penalization, Levy Processes and Concave Conjugates,In this paper we study sparsity-inducing nonconvex penalty functions using Levy processes. We define such a  penalty as the Laplace exponent of a subordinator. Accordingly, we propose a novel approach for the construction of sparsity-inducing nonconvex penalties. Particularly,  we show that the nonconvex logarithmic (LOG) and exponential (EXP) penalty functions are the Laplace exponents of Gamma and compound Poisson subordinators, respectively. Additionaly, we explore the concave conjugate of nonconvex penalties. We find that the LOG and EXP penalties are the concave conjugates of the negatives of Kullback-Leiber (KL) distance functions. Furthermore, the relationship between these two penalties is due to asymmetricity of the KL distance.
Clustering Aggregation as Maximum-Weight Independent Set,We formulate clustering aggregation as a special instance of Maximum-Weight Independent Set (MWIS) problem. For a given dataset, an attributed graph is constructed from the union of the input clusterings generated by different underlying clustering algorithms with different parameters. The vertices, which represent the distinct clusters, are weighted by an internal index measuring both cohesion and separation. The edges connect the vertices whose corresponding clusters overlap. Intuitively, an optimal aggregated clustering can be obtained by selecting an optimal subset of non-overlapping clusters partitioning the dataset together. We formalize this intuition as the MWIS problem on the attributed graph, i.e., finding the heaviest subset of mutually non-adjacent vertices.  This MWIS problem exhibits a special structure. Since the clusters of each input clustering form a partition of the dataset, the vertices corresponding to each clustering form a maximal independent set (MIS) in the attributed graph. We propose a variant of simulated annealing method that takes advantage of this special structure. Our algorithm starts from each MIS, which is close to a distinct local optimum of the MWIS problem, and utilizes a local search heuristic to explore its neighborhood in order to find the MWIS. Extensive experiments on many challenging datasets show that: 1. our approach to clustering aggregation automatically decides the optimal number of clusters; 2. it does not require any parameter tuning for the underlying clustering algorithms; 3. it can combine the advantages of different underlying clustering algorithms to achieve superior performance; 4. it is robust against moderate or even bad input clusterings.
Near-optimal Differentially Private Principal Components,Principal components analysis (PCA) is a standard tool for identifying good low-dimensional approximations to data sets in high dimension.  Many current data sets of interest contain private or sensitive information about individuals.  Algorithms which operate on such data should be sensitive to the privacy risks in publishing their outputs.  Differential privacy is a framework for developing tradeoffs between privacy and the utility of these outputs.  In this paper we investigate the theory and empirical performance of differentially private approximations to PCA and propose a new method which explicitly optimizes the utility of the output.  We demonstrate that on real data, there this a large performance gap between the existing methods and our method.  We show that the sample complexity for the two procedures differs in the scaling with the data dimension, and that our method is nearly optimal in terms of this scaling.
High-dimensional Nonparanormal Graph Estimation via Smooth-projected Neighborhood Pursuit,We propose a new smooth-projected neighborhood pursuit method for estimating high dimensional undirected graphs. Our method can be viewed as a semiparametric extension of the popular neighborhood pursuit approach proposed by N. Meinshausen and P. B{}hlmann 2006 from Gaussian to  Gaussian copula models (or the nonparanormal models as proposed by Liu et. al 2009). In terms of methodology and computation, we project a possibly indefinite symmetric matrix into the cone of positive semidefinite matrices. The projection is formulated as a smoothed element-wise $\ell_\infty$-norm minimization problem. We develop an efficient fast proximal gradient algorithm with a provable optimal rate of convergence $\cO(1/\sqrt{\epsilon})$, where $\epsilon$ is the desired accuracy for the objective value. In terms of theory, we provide an alternative view to analyze the trade-off between computational efficiency and statistical error. We give a sufficient condition to secure that the smooth-projected neighborhood pursuit estimator achieves graph estimation consistency. Empirically, we conduct real data experiments on stock and genomic datasets to illustrate the usefulness of the proposed method.
Q-MKL: Matrix-induced Regularization in Multi-Kernel Learning with Applications to Neuroimaging,Multiple Kernel Learning (MKL) generalizes SVMs to the setting where one simultaneously trains a linear classifier and chooses an optimal combination of given base kernels. Model complexity is typically controlled using various norm regularizations on the vector of base kernel mixing coefficients. Existing methods, however, neither regularize nor exploit potentially useful information pertaining to how kernels in the input set 'interact'; that is, higher order kernel-pair relationships that can be easily obtained via unsupervised (similarity, geodesics), supervised (correlation in errors), or domain knowledge driven mechanisms (which features were used to construct the kernel?). We show that by substituting the norm penalty with an arbitrary quadratic function Q \succeq 0, one can impose a desired covariance structure on mixing coefficient selection, and use this as an inductive bias when learning the concept. This formulation significantly generalizes the widely used 1- and 2-norm MKL objectives. We explore the models utility via experiments on a challenging Neuroimaging problem, where the goal is to predict a subjects conversion to Alzheimers Disease (AD) by exploiting aggregate information from several distinct imaging modalities. Here, our new model outperforms the state of the art (p-values << 103 ). We briefly discuss ramifications in terms of learning bounds (Rademacher complexity).
The Bethe Partition Function of Log-supermodular Graphical Models,Sudderth, Wainwright, and Willsky conjectured that the Bethe approximation corresponding to any fixed point of the belief propagation algorithm over an attractive, pairwise binary graphical model provides a lower bound on the true partition function. In this work, we resolve this conjecture in the affirmative by demonstrating that, for any graphical model with binary variables whose potential functions (not necessarily pairwise) are all log-supermodular, the Bethe partition function always lower bounds the true partition function.  The proof of this result follows from a new variant of the four functions theorem that may be of independent interest.
A Simple and Practical Algorithm for Differentially Private Data Release,We present a new algorithm for differentially private data release, based on a simple combination of the Exponential Mechanism with the Multiplicative Weights update rule.  Our MWEM algorithm achieves what are the best known and nearly optimal theoretical guarantees, while at the same time being simple to implement and experimentally more accurate on actual data sets than existing techniques.
Supervised Learning with Similarity Functions,We address the problem of general supervised learning when data can only be accessed through an (indefinite) similarity function between data points. Existing work on learning with indefinite kernels has concentrated solely on binary/multiclass classification problems. We propose a model that is generic enough to handle any supervised learning task and also subsumes the model previously proposed for classification. We give a ''goodness'' criterion for similarity functions w.r.t. a given supervised learning task and then adapt a well-known landmarking technique to provide efficient algorithms for supervised learning using ''good'' similarity functions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our model on three important supervised learning problems: a) real-valued regression, b) ordinal regression and c) ranking where we show that our method guarantees bounded generalization error. Furthermore, for the case of real-valued regression, we give a natural goodness definition that, when used in conjunction with a recent result in sparse vector recovery, guarantees a sparse predictor with bounded generalization error. Finally, we report results of our learning algorithms on regression and ordinal regression tasks using non-PSD similarity functions and demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithms, especially that of the sparse landmark selection algorithm that achieves significantly higher accuracies than the baseline methods while offering reduced computational costs.
Waveform Driven Plasticity in BiFeO3 Memristive Devices: Model and Implementation,Memristive devices have recently been proposed as efficient implementations of plastic synapses in neuromorphic systems. The plasticity in these memristive devices, i.e. their resistance change, is defined by the applied waveforms. This behavior resembles biological synapses, whose plasticity is also triggered by mechanisms that are determined by local waveforms. However, learning in memristive devices has so far been approached mostly on a pragmatic technological level. The focus seems to be on finding any waveform that achieves spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), without regard to the biological veracity of said waveforms or to further important forms of plasticity. Bridging this gap, we make use of a plasticity model driven by neuron waveforms that explains a large number of experimental observations and adapt it to the characteristics of the recently introduced BiFeO$_3$ memristive material. Based on this approach, we show STDP for the first time for this material, with learning window replication superior to previous memristor-based STDP implementations. We also demonstrate in measurements that it is possible to overlay short and long term plasticity at a memristive device in the form of the well-known triplet plasticity. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first implementations of triplet plasticity on any physical memristive device.
Learned Prioritization for Trading Off Accuracy and Speed,Users want natural language processing (NLP) systems to be both fast and accurate, but quality often comes at the cost of speed. The field has been manually exploring various speed-accuracy tradeoffs (for particular problems and datasets).  We aim to explore this space automatically, focusing here on the case of agenda-based syntactic parsing \cite{kay-1986}. Unfortunately, off-the-shelf reinforcement learning techniques fail to learn good policies: the state space is simply too large to explore naively. An attempt to counteract this by applying imitation learning algorithms also fails: the ``teacher'' is far too good to successfully imitate with our inexpensive features.  Moreover, it is not specifically tuned for the known reward function.  We propose a hybrid reinforcement/apprenticeship learning algorithm that, even with only a few inexpensive features, can automatically learn weights that achieve competitive accuracies at significant improvements in speed over state-of-the-art baselines.
Compressive Sensing MRI with Wavelet Tree Sparsity,In Compressive Sensing Magnetic Resonance Imaging (CS-MRI), one can reconstruct a MR image with good quality from only a small number of measurements. This can significantly reduce MR scanning time. According to structured sparsity theory, the measurements can be further reduced to $\mathcal{O}(K+\log n)$ for tree-sparse data instead of $\mathcal{O}(K+K\log n)$ for standard $K$-sparse data with length $n$. However, few of existing algorithms has utilized this for CS-MRI, while most of them use Total Variation and wavelet sparse regularization. On the other side, some algorithms have been proposed for tree sparsity regularization, but few of them has validated   the benefit of tree structure in CS-MRI. In this paper, we propose a fast convex optimization algorithm to improve CS-MRI.  Wavelet sparsity, gradient sparsity and tree sparsity are all considered in our model for real MR images. The original complex problem is decomposed to three simpler subproblems then each of the subproblems can be efficiently solved with an iterative scheme. Numerous experiments have been conducted and show that the proposed algorithm outperforms the state-of-the-art CS-MRI algorithms, and gain better reconstructions results on real MR images than general tree based solvers or algorithms.
Rational inference of relative preferences,Statistical decision theory axiomatically assumes that the relative desirability of different options that humans perceive is well described by assigning them option-specific scalar utility functions. However, this assumption is refuted by observed human behavior, including studies wherein preferences have been shown to change systematically simply through variation in the set of choice options presented. In this paper, we show that interpreting desirability as a relative comparison between available options at any particular decision instance results in a rational theory of value-inference that explains heretofore intractable violations of rational choice behavior in human subjects. Complementarily, we also characterize the conditions under which a rational agent selecting optimal options indicated by dynamic value inference in our framework will behave identically to one whose preferences are encoded using a static ordinal utility function.
On the connections between saliency and tracking,A model connecting visual tracking and saliency has recently been proposed. This model is based on the saliency hypothesis for tracking which postulates that tracking is achieved by the top-down tuning, based on target features, of discriminant center-surround saliency mechanisms over time. In this work, we identify three main predictions that must hold if the hypothesis were true: 1) tracking reliability should be larger for salient than for non-salient targets, 2) tracking reliability should have a dependence on the defining variables of saliency, namely feature contrast and distractor heterogeneity, and must replicate the dependence of saliency on these variables, and 3) saliency and tracking can be implemented with common low level neural mechanisms. We confirm that the first two predictions hold by reporting results from a set of human behavior studies on the connection between saliency and tracking. We also show that the third prediction holds by constructing a common neurophysiologically plausible architecture that can computationally solve both saliency and tracking. This architecture is fully compliant with the standard physiological models of V1 and MT, and with what is known about attentional control in area LIP, while explaining the results of the human behavior experiments.
One Permutation Hashing,While minwise hashing is promising for large-scale learning in massive binary data, the preprocessing cost is prohibitive as it requires applying (e.g.,) $k=500$ permutations on the data. The testing time is also  expensive if a new data point (e.g., a new document or a new image) has not been processed.  In this paper, we develop a simple \textbf{one permutation hashing} scheme to address this important issue. While it is true that the preprocessing step can be parallelized, it comes at the cost of additional hardware and implementation. Also, reducing $k$ permutations to just one  would be much more \textbf{energy-efficient}, which might be an important perspective as minwise hashing is commonly deployed in the search industry. While the theoretical probability analysis is  interesting, our experiments on similarity estimation and   SVM \& logistic regression also confirm the theoretical results.
A Polynomial-time Form of Robust Regression,Despite the variety of robust regression methods that have been developed, current regression formulations are either NP-hard, or allow unbounded response to even a single leverage point. We present a general formulation for robust regression --Variational M-estimation--that unifies a number of robust regression methods while allowing a tractable approximation strategy. We develop an estimator that requires only polynomial-time, while achieving certain robustness and consistency guarantees. An experimental evaluation demonstrates the effectiveness of the new estimation approach  compared to standard methods.
Learning Halfspaces with the Zero-One Loss: Time-Accuracy Tradeoffs,Given $\alpha,\epsilon$, we study the time complexity   required to improperly learn a halfspace with misclassification   error rate of at most $(1+\alpha)\,L^*_\gamma + \epsilon$, where   $L^*_\gamma$ is the optimal $\gamma$-margin error rate. For $\alpha   = 1/\gamma$, polynomial time and sample complexity is achievable   using the hinge-loss. For $\alpha = 0$, \cite{ShalevShSr11} showed   that $\poly(1/\gamma)$ time is impossible, while learning is   possible in time $\exp(\tilde{O}(1/\gamma))$.  An immediate   question, which this paper tackles, is what is achievable if $\alpha   \in (0,1/\gamma)$.  We derive positive results interpolating between   the polynomial time for $\alpha = 1/\gamma$ and the exponential   time for $\alpha=0$. In particular, we show that there are cases in   which $\alpha = o(1/\gamma)$ but the problem is still solvable in   polynomial time. Our results naturally extend to the adversarial   online learning model and to the PAC learning with malicious noise   model.
Assessing Blinding in Clinical Trials,The interaction between the patient's expected outcome of an intervention and the inherent effects of that intervention can have extraordinary effects. Thus in clinical trials an effort is made to conceal the nature of the administered intervention from the participants in the trial i.e. to blind it. Yet, in practice perfect blinding is impossible to ensure or even verify. The current standard is follow up the trial with an auxiliary questionnaire, which allows trial participants to express their belief concerning the assigned intervention and which is used to compute a measure of the extent of blinding in the trial. If the estimated extent of blinding exceeds a threshold the trial is deemed sufficiently blinded; otherwise, the trial is deemed to have failed. In this paper we make several important contributions. Firstly, we identify a series of fundamental problems of the aforesaid practice and discuss them in context of the most commonly used blinding measures. Secondly, motivated by the highlighted problems, we formulate a novel method for handling imperfectly blinded trials. We too adopt a post-trial feedback questionnaire but interpret the collected data using an original approach, fundamentally different from those previously proposed. Unlike previous approaches, ours is void of any ad hoc free parameters, is robust to small changes in auxiliary data and is not predicated on any strong assumptions used to interpret participants' feedback.
Globally Convergent Dual MAP LP Relaxation Solvers using Fenchel-Young Margins,While finding the exact solution for the MAP inference problem is intractable for many real-world tasks, MAP LP relaxations have been shown to be very effective in practice.  However, the most efficient methods that perform block coordinate descent can get stuck in sub-optimal points as  they are not globally convergent. In this work we propose to augment these algorithms with an $\epsilon$-descent approach and present a method to efficiently optimize for a descent direction in the subdifferential using a margin-based extension of the Fenchel-Young duality theorem. Furthermore, the presented approach provides a methodology to construct a primal optimal solution from its dual optimal counterpart. We demonstrate the efficiency of the presented approach on spin glass models and protein interactions problems and show that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art solvers.
Semantic Kernel Forests from Multiple Taxonomies,When learning features for complex visual recognition problems, labeled image exemplars alone can be insufficient.  While an \emph{object taxonomy} specifying the categories' semantic relationships could bolster the learning process, not all relationships are relevant to a given visual classification task, nor does a single taxonomy capture all ties that \emph{are} relevant.  In light of these issues, we propose a discriminative feature learning approach that leverages \emph{multiple} hierarchical taxonomies representing different semantic views of the object categories (e.g., for animal classes, one taxonomy could reflect their phylogenic ties, while another could reflect their habitats).  For each taxonomy, we first learn a tree of semantic kernels, where each node has a Mahalanobis kernel optimized to distinguish between the classes in its children nodes.  Then, using the resulting \emph{semantic kernel forest}, we learn class-specific kernel combinations to select only those relationships relevant to recognize each object class.  To learn the weights, we introduce a novel hierarchical regularization term that further exploits the taxonomies' structure.  We demonstrate our method on challenging object recognition datasets, and show that interleaving multiple taxonomic views yields significant accuracy improvements.
Kernel Latent SVM for Visual Recognition,Latent SVMs (LSVMs) are a class of powerful tools that have been successfully applied to many applications in computer vision. However, a limitation of LSVMs is that they rely on linear models. For many computer vision tasks, linear models are suboptimal and nonlinear models learned with kernels typically perform much better. Therefore it is desirable to develop the kernel version of LSVM. In this paper, we propose kernel latent SVM (KLSVM) -- a new learning framework that combines latent SVMs and kernel methods. We develop an iterative training algorithm to learn the model parameters. We demonstrate the effectiveness of KLSVM using three different applications in visual recognition. Our KLSVM formulation is very general and can be applied to solve a wide range of applications in computer vision and machine learning.
Discriminatively Trained Sparse Code Gradients for Contour Detection,Finding contours in natural images is a fundamental problem that serves as the basis of many tasks such as image segmentation and object recognition. At the core of contour detection technologies are a set of hand-designed gradient features, used by most existing approaches including the state-of-the-art Global Pb (gPb) operator.  In this work, we show that contour detection accuracy can be significantly improved by computing Sparse Code Gradients (SCG), which measure contrast using patch representations automatically learned through sparse coding.  We use K-SVD and Orthogonal Matching Pursuit for efficient dictionary learning and encoding, and use multi-scale pooling and power transforms to code oriented local neighborhoods before computing gradients and applying linear SVM. By extracting rich representations from pixels and avoiding collapsing them prematurely, Sparse Code Gradients effectively learn how to measure local contrasts and find contours. We improve the F-measure metric on the BSDS500 benchmark to 0.74 (up from 0.71 of gPb contours).  Moreover, our learning approach can easily adapt to novel sensor data such as Kinect-style RGB-D cameras: Sparse Code Gradients on depth images and surface normals lead to promising contour detection using depth and depth+color, as verified on the NYU Depth Dataset.  Our work combines the concept of oriented gradients with sparse representation and opens up future possibilities for learning contour detection and segmentation.
Learning to Align from Scratch,Unsupervised joint alignment of images has been demonstrated to   improve performance on recognition tasks such as face verification.   Such alignment reduces undesired variability due to factors such as   pose, while only requiring weak supervision in the form of poorly   aligned examples.  However, prior work on unsupervised alignment of   complex, real world images has required the careful selection of   feature representation based on hand-crafted image descriptors, in   order to achieve an appropriate, smooth optimization landscape.    In this paper, we instead propose a novel combination of   unsupervised joint alignment with unsupervised feature learning.   Specifically, we incorporate deep learning into the {\em congealing}   alignment framework.  Through deep learning, we obtain features that   can represent the image at differing resolutions based on network   depth, and that are tuned to the statistics of the specific data   being aligned.  In addition, we modify the learning algorithm for   the restricted Boltzmann machine by incorporating a group sparsity   penalty, leading to a topographic organization on the learned   filters and improving subsequent alignment results.    We apply our method to the Labeled Faces in the Wild database   (LFW). Using the aligned images produced by our proposed   unsupervised algorithm, we achieve a significantly higher accuracy   in face verification than obtained using the original face images,   prior work in unsupervised alignment, and prior work in supervised   alignment.  We also match the accuracy for the best available, but   unpublished method.
Calibrated Elastic Regularization in Matrix Completion,This paper concerns the problem of matrix completion, which is to estimate a matrix from observations in a small subset of indices. We propose a calibrated spectrum elastic net method with a sum of the nuclear and Frobenius penalties and develop an iterative algorithm to solve the convex minimization problem. The iterative algorithm alternates between imputing the missing entries in the incomplete matrix by the current guess and estimating the matrix by a scaled soft-thresholding singular value decomposition of the imputed matrix until the resulting matrix converges. A calibration step follows to correct the bias caused by the Frobenius penalty. Under proper coherence conditions and for suitable penalties levels, we prove that the proposed estimator achieves an error bound of nearly optimal order and in proportion to the noise level. This provides a unified analysis of the noisy and noiseless matrix completion problems. Simulation results are presented to compare our proposal with previous ones.
Provable ICA with Unknown Gaussian Noise, with Implications for Gaussian Mixtures and Autoencoders,We present a new algorithm for Independent Component Analysis (ICA) which has provable performance guarantees. In particular, suppose we are given samples of the form $y = Ax + \eta$ where $A$ is an unknown $n \times n$ matrix and $x$ is chosen uniformly at random from $\{+1, -1\}^n$, $\eta$ is an $n$-dimensional Gaussian random variable with unknown covariance $\Sigma$: We give an algorithm that provable recovers $A$ and $\Sigma$ up to an additive $\epsilon$ whose running time and sample complexity are polynomial in $n$ and $1 / \epsilon$. To accomplish this, we introduce a novel ``quasi-whitening'' step that may be useful in other contexts in which the covariance of Gaussian noise is not known in advance. We also give a general framework for finding all local optima of a function (given an oracle for approximately finding just one) and this is a crucial step in our algorithm, one that has been overlooked in previous attempts, and allows us to control the accumulation of error when we find the columns of $A$ one by one via local search.
Timely Object Recognition,In a large visual multi-class detection framework, the timeliness of results can be crucial. Our method for timely multi-class detection aims to give the best possible performance at any single point after a start time; it is terminated at a deadline time. Toward this goal, we formulate a dynamic, closed-loop policy that infers the contents of the image in order to decide which detector to deploy next. In contrast to previous work, our method significantly diverges from the predominant greedy strategies, and is able to learn to take actions with deferred values. We evaluate our method with a novel timeliness measure, computed as the area under an Average Precision vs. Time curve. Experiments are conducted on the eminent PASCAL VOC object detection dataset. If execution is stopped when only half the detectors have been run, our method obtains $66\%$ better AP than a random ordering, and $14\%$ better performance than an intelligent baseline. On the timeliness measure, our method obtains at least $11\%$ better performance. Our code, to be made available upon publication, is easily extensible as it treats detectors and classifiers as black boxes and learns from execution traces using reinforcement learning.
Random function priors for exchangeable graphs and arrays,A fundamental problem in the analysis of relational data---graphs, matrices or higher-dimensional arrays---is to extract a summary of the common structure underlying relations between individual entities. A successful approach is latent variable modeling, which summarizes this structure as an embedding into a suitable latent space. Results in probability theory, due to Aldous, Hoover and Kallenberg, show that relational data satisfying an exchangeability property can be represented in terms of a random measurable function. In a Bayesian model, this function constitutes the natural model parameter, and we discuss how available latent variable models can be classified according to how they implicitly approximate this parameter. We obtain a flexible yet simple model for relational data by representing the  parameter function as a Gaussian process. Efficient inference draws on the large available arsenal of Gaussian process algorithms; sparse approximations prove particularly useful. We demonstrate applications of the model to network data and clarify its relation to models in the literature, several of which emerge as special cases.
Stochastic Gradient Descent with Only One Projection,Although many variants of stochastic gradient descent have been proposed for large-scale convex optimization, most of them require projecting the solution at {\it each} iteration to ensure that the obtained solution stays within the feasible domain. For complex domains (e.g., positive semidefinite cone), the projection step can be computationally expensive, making stochastic gradient descent unattractive for large-scale optimization problems. We address this limitation by developing a novel stochastic gradient descent algorithm that does not need intermediate projections. Instead, only one projection at the last iteration is needed to obtain a feasible solution in the given domain. Our theoretical analysis shows that with a high probability, the proposed algorithms achieve an $O(1/\sqrt{T})$ convergence rate for general convex optimization, and an $O(\ln T/T)$  rate for  strongly convex optimization under mild conditions about the domain and the objective function.
Multi-Task Averaging,We present a multi-task learning approach to jointly estimate the means of multiple independent data sets. The proposed multi-task averaging (MTA) algorithm results in a convex combination of the single-task averages. We derive the optimal amount of regularization, and show that it can be effectively estimated. Simulations and real data experiments demonstrate that MTA  both maximum likelihood and James-Stein estimators, and that our approach to estimating the amount of regularization rivals cross-validation in performance but is more computationally efficient.
Stochastic optimization and sparse statistical recovery: Optimal algorithms for high dimensions,We develop and analyze stochastic optimization algorithms for problems in which the expected loss is strongly convex, and the optimum is (approximately) sparse. Previous approaches are able to exploit only one of these two structures, yielding a $\order(\pdim/T)$ convergence rate for strongly convex objectives in $\pdim$ dimensions and $\order(\sqrt{\spindex( \log\pdim)/T})$ convergence rate when the optimum is $\spindex$-sparse. Our algorithm is based on successively solving a series of $\ell_1$-regularized optimization problems using Nesterov's dual averaging algorithm. We establish that the error of our solution after $T$ iterations is at most $\order(\spindex(\log\pdim)/T)$, with natural extensions to approximate sparsity. Our results apply to locally Lipschitz losses including the logistic, exponential, hinge and least-squares losses. By recourse to statistical minimax results, we show that our convergence rates are optimal up to constants. The effectiveness of our approach is also confirmed in numerical simulations where we compare to several baselines on a least-squares regression problem.
The Perturbed Variation,We introduce a new discrepancy score between two distributions that gives an indication on their \emph{similarity}. While much research has been done to determine if two samples come from exactly the same distribution, much less research considered the problem of determining if two finite samples come from similar distributions. The new score gives an intuitive interpretation of similarity;  it optimally perturbs the distributions so that they best fit each other. The score is defined between distributions, and can be efficiently estimated from samples. We provide convergence bounds of the estimated score, and develop hypothesis testing procedures that test if two data sets come from similar distributions. The statistical power of this procedures is presented in simulations. We also compare the score's capacity to detect similarity with that of other known measures on real data.
Graphical Gaussian Vector for Image Categorization,This paper proposes a novel image representation called a Graphical Gaussian Vector, which is a counterpart of the codebook and local feature matching approaches. In our method, we model the distribution of local features as a Gaussian Markov Random Field (GMRF) which can efficiently represent the spatial relationship among local features. We consider the parameter of GMRF as a feature vector of the image. Using concepts of information geometry, proper parameters and a metric from the GMRF can be obtained. Finally we define a new image feature by embedding the metric into the parameters, which can be directly applied to scalable linear classifiers. Our method obtains superior performance over the state-of-the-art methods in the standard object recognition datasets and comparable performance in the scene dataset. As the proposed method simply calculates the local auto-correlations of local features, it is able to achieve both high classification accuracy and high efficiency.
Hierarchical Optimistic Region Selection driven by Curiosity,This paper aims to take a step forwards making the term ``intrinsic motivation'' from reinforcement learning theoretically well founded, focusing on curiosity-driven learning. To that end, we consider the setting where, a fixed partition P of a continuous space X being given, and a process \nu defined on X being unknown, we are asked to sequentially decide which cell of the partition to select as well as where to sample \nu in that cell, in order to minimize a loss function that is inspired from previous work on curiosity-driven learning. The loss on each cell consists of one term measuring a simple worst case quadratic sampling error, and a penalty term proportional to the range of the variance in that cell. The corresponding problem formulation extends the setting known as active learning for multi-armed bandits to the case when each arm is a continuous region, and we show how an adaptation of recent algorithms for that problem and of hierarchical optimistic sampling algorithms for optimization can be used in order to solve this problem. The resulting procedure, called Hierarchical Optimistic Region SElection driven by Curiosity (HORSE.C) is provided together with a finite-time regret analysis.
A Stochastic Gradient Method with an Exponential Convergence,Rate  for Finite Training Sets,We propose a new stochastic gradient method for optimizing the sum of a finite set of smooth functions, where the sum is strongly convex.\00\00 While standard stochastic gradient methods converge at sublinear rates for this problem, the proposed method incorporates a memory of previous gradient values in order to achieve a linear convergence \00\00 rate.  In a machine learning context, numerical experiments indicate that the new algorithm can dramatically outperform standard algorithms, both in terms of optimizing the training error and reducing the test error quickly.
Active Comparison of Prediction Models,We address the problem of comparing the risks of two given predictive models - for instance, a baseline model and a challenger - as confidently as possible on a fixed labeling budget. This problem occurs whenever models cannot be compared on held-out training data, possibly because the training data are unavailable or do not reflect the desired test distribution. In this case, new test instances have to be drawn and labeled at a cost. We devise an active comparison method that selects instances according to an instrumental sampling distribution. We derive the sampling distribution that maximizes the power of a statistical test applied to the observed empirical risks, and thereby minimizes the likelihood of choosing the inferior model. Empirically, we investigate model selection problems on several classification and regression tasks and study the accuracy of the resulting p-values.
Interpreting prediction markets: a stochastic approach,We strengthen recent connections between prediction markets and learning by showing that a natural class of market makers can be understood as performing stochastic mirror descent when trader demands are sequentially drawn from a fixed distribution. This provides new insights into how market prices (and price paths) may be interpreted as a summary of the market's belief distribution by relating them to the optimization problem being solved. In particular, we show that the stationary point of the stochastic process of prices generated by the market is equal to the market's Walrasian equilibrium of classic market analysis. Together, these results suggest how traditional market making mechanisms might be replaced with general purpose learning algorithms while still retaining guarantees about their behaviour.
On Lifting the Gibbs Sampling Algorithm,Statistical relational learning models combine the power of first-order logic, the de facto tool for handling relational structure, with that of probabilistic graphical models, the de facto tool for handling uncertainty. Lifted probabilistic inference algorithms for them have been the subject of much recent research. The main idea in these algorithms is to improve the speed, accuracy and scalability of existing graphical models' inference algorithms by exploiting symmetry in the first-order representation. In this paper, we consider blocked Gibbs sampling, an advanced variation of the classic Gibbs sampling algorithm and lift it to the first-order level. We propose to achieve this by partitioning the first-order atoms in the relational model into a set of disjoint clusters such that exact lifted inference is polynomial in each cluster given an assignment to all other atoms not in the cluster. We propose an approach for constructing such clusters and determining their complexity and show how it can be used to trade accuracy with computational complexity in a principled manner. Our experimental evaluation shows that lifted Gibbs sampling is superior to the propositional algorithm in terms of accuracy and convergence.
TCA: High Dimensional Principal Component Analysis for non-Gaussian Data,We propose a high dimensional semiparametric scale-invariant principle component analysis, named TCA, by utilize the natural connection between the elliptical distribution family and the principal component analysis. Elliptical distribution family includes many well-known multivariate distributions like multivariate t and logistic and it is extended to the meta-elliptical by Fang (2002) using the copula techniques. In this paper we extend the meta-elliptical distribution family to a even larger family, called transelliptical. We prove that TCA can obtain a near-optimal s(log d/n)^{1/2} estimation consistency rate in the transelliptical distribution family, even if the distributions are very heavy-tailed, have infinite second moments, do not have densities and possess arbitrarily continuous marginal distributions. A feature selection result with explicit rate is also provided. TCA is also implemented in both numerical simulations and large-scale stock data to illustrate its empirical performance. Both theories and experiments confirm that TCA can achieve model flexibility, estimation accuracy and robustness at almost no cost.
3D Object Detection and Viewpoint Estimation with a Deformable 3D Cuboid Model,This paper addresses the problem of category-level 3D object detection. Given a monocular image, our aim is to localize the objects  in 3D by enclosing them with tight  oriented 3D bounding boxes. We propose a novel approach that extends the well-acclaimed deformable part-based model[Felz.] to reason in 3D. Our model represents an object class as a deformable 3D cuboid composed of faces and parts, which are both allowed to deform with respect to their anchors on the 3D box. We model the appearance of each face in fronto-parallel coordinates, thus effectively factoring out the appearance variation induced by viewpoint. Our model reasons about face visibility patters called aspects. We train the cuboid model jointly and discriminatively and share weights across all aspects to attain efficiency. Inference then entails sliding and rotating the box in 3D and scoring object hypotheses. While for inference we discretize the search space, the variables are  continuous in our model. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in indoor and outdoor scenarios, and show that our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art in both 2D[Felz09] and 3D object detection[Hedau12].
A Generative Model for Parts-based Object Segmentation,The Shape Boltzmann Machine (SBM) has recently been introduced as a state-of-the-art model of foreground/background object shape. We extend the SBM to account for the foreground object's parts. Our model, the Multinomial SBM (MSBM), can capture both local and global statistics of part shapes accurately. We combine the MSBM with an appearance model to form a fully generative model of images of objects. Parts-based image segmentations are obtained simply by performing probabilistic inference in the model. We apply the model to two challenging datasets which exhibit significant shape and appearance variability, and find that it obtains results that are comparable to the state-of-the-art.
Matrix reconstruction with the local max norm,We introduce a new family of matrix norms, the ''local max'' norms, generalizing existing methods such as the max norm, the trace norm (nuclear norm), and the weighted or smoothed weighted trace norms, which have been extensively used in the literature as regularizers for matrix reconstruction problems. We show that this new family can be used to interpolate between the (weighted or unweighted) trace norm and the more conservative max norm. We test this interpolation on simulated data and on the large-scale Netflix and MovieLens ratings data, and find improved accuracy relative to the existing matrix norms. We also provide theoretical results showing learning guarantees for some of the new norms.
Finding Exemplars from Pairwise Dissimilarities via Simultaneous Sparse Recovery,Given pairwise dissimilarities between data points, we consider the problem of finding a subset of data points called representatives or exemplars that can efficiently describe the data collection. We formulate the problem as a row-sparsity regularized trace minimization problem which can be solved efficiently using convex programming. The solution of the proposed optimization program finds the representatives and the probability that each data point is associated to each one of the representatives. We obtain the range of the regularization parameter for which the solution of the proposed optimization program changes from selecting one representative to selecting all data points as the representatives. When data points are distributed around multiple clusters according to the dissimilarities, we show that the data in each cluster select only representatives from that cluster. Unlike metric-based methods, our algorithm does not require that the pairwise dissimilarities be metrics and can be applied to dissimilarities that are asymmetric or violate the triangle inequality. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm on synthetic data as well as real-world datasets of images and text.
Online allocation and homogeneous partitioning for piecewise constant mean-approximation,In the setting of active learning for the multi-armed bandit, where the goal of a learner is to estimate with equal precision the mean of a finite number of arms, recent results show that it is possible to derive strategies based on finite-time confidence bounds that are competitive with the best possible strategy. We here consider an extension of this problem to the case when the arms are the cells of a finite partition P of a continuous sampling space X \subset \Real^d. Our goal is now to build a piecewise constant approximation of a noisy function (where each piece is one region of P and P is fixed beforehand) in order to maintain the local quadratic error of approximation on each cell equally low. Although this extension is not trivial, we show that a simple algorithm based on upper confidence bounds can be proved to be adaptive to the function itself in a near-optimal way, when |P| is chosen to be of minimax-optimal order  on the class of \alpha-Hlder functions.
Risk-Aversion in Multi-armed Bandits,In stochastic multi--armed bandits the objective is to solve the exploration--exploitation dilemma and ultimately maximize the expected reward. Nonetheless, in many practical problems, maximizing the expected reward is not the most desirable objective. In this paper, we introduce a novel setting based on the principle of risk--aversion where the objective is to compete against the arm with the best risk--return trade--off. This setting proves to be intrinsically more difficult than the standard multi-arm bandit setting due in part to an exploration risk which introduces a regret associated to the variability of an algorithm. Using variance as a measure of risk, we introduce two new algorithms, we investigate their theoretical guarantees, and we report preliminary empirical results.
Scaled Gradients on Grassmann Manifolds for Matrix Completion,This paper describes gradient methods based on a scaled metric on the Grassmann manifold for low-rank matrix completion. The proposed methods significantly improve canonical gradient methods especially on ill-conditioned matrices, while maintaining established global convegence and exact recovery guarantees. A connection between a form of subspace iteration for matrix completion and the scaled gradient descent procedure is also established. The proposed conjugate gradient method based on the scaled gradient outperforms several existing algorithms for matrix completion and is competitive with recently proposed methods.
Bayesian active learning with localized priors for fast receptive field characterization,Active learning can substantially improve the yield of neurophysiology experiments by adaptively selecting stimuli to probe a neuron's receptive field (RF) in real time. Bayesian active learning methods maintain a posterior distribution over the RF, and select stimuli to maximally reduce posterior entropy on each time step.  However, existing methods tend to rely on simple Gaussian priors, and do not exploit uncertainty at the level of hyperparameters when determining an optimal stimulus.  This uncertainty can play a substantial role in RF characterization, particularly when RFs are smooth, sparse, or local in space and time.  In this paper, we describe a novel framework for active learning under hierarchical, conditionally Gaussian priors.  Our algorithm uses sequential Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling (''particle filtering'' with MCMC) over hyperparameters to construct a mixture-of-Gaussians representation of the RF posterior, and selects optimal stimuli using an approximate infomax criterion.  The core elements of this algorithm are parallelizable, making it computationally efficient for real-time experiments.  We apply our algorithm to simulated and real neural data, and show that it can provide highly accurate receptive field estimates from very limited data, even with a small number of hyperparameter samples.
Expectation Propagation in Gaussian Process Dynamical Systems,Rich and complex time-series data, such as those generated from engineering sys- tems, financial markets, videos or neural recordings are now a common feature of modern data analysis. Explaining the phenomena underlying these diverse data sets requires flexible and accurate models. In this paper, we promote Gaussian process dynamical systems as a rich model class appropriate for such analysis. In particular, we present a message passing algorithm for approximate inference in GPDSs based on expectation propagation. By phrasing inference as a general mes- sage passing problem, we iterate forward-backward smoothing. We obtain more accurate posterior distributions over latent structures, resulting in improved pre- dictive performance compared to state-of-the-art GPDS smoothers, which are spe- cial cases of our general iterative message passing algorithm. Hence, we provide a unifying approach within which to contextualize message passing in GPDSs.
Minimizing Uncertainty in Pipelines,In this paper, we consider the problem of debugging large pipelines by human labeling. We represent the execution of a pipeline using a directed acyclic graph of AND and OR nodes, where each node represents a data item produced by some operator in the pipeline. We assume that each operator assigns a confidence to each of its output data. We want to reduce the uncertainty in the output by issuing queries to a human expert, where a query consists of checking if a given data item is correct. In this paper, we consider the problem of asking the optimal set of queries to minimize the resulting output uncertainty. We perform a detailed evaluation of the complexity of the problem for various classes of graphs. We give efficient algorithms for the problem for trees, and show that, for a general dag, the problem is intractable.
Training sparse natural image models with a fast Gibbs sampler of an extended state space,We present a new learning strategy based on an efficient blocked Gibbs sampler for sparse overcomplete linear models. Particular emphasis is placed on statistical image modeling, where overcomplete models have played an important role in discovering sparse representations. Our Gibbs sampler is faster than general purpose sampling schemes while also requiring no tuning as it is free of parameters. Using the Gibbs sampler and a persistent variant of expectation maximization, we are able to extract highly sparse distributions over latent sources from data. When applied to natural images, our algorithm learns source distributions which resemble spike-and-slab distributions. We evaluate the likelihood and quantitatively compare the performance of the overcomplete linear model to its complete counterpart as well as a product of experts model, which represents another overcomplete generalization of the complete linear model. In contrast to previous claims, we find that overcomplete representations lead to significant improvements, but that the overcomplete linear model still underperforms other models.
A Polylog Pivot Steps Simplex Algorithm for Classification,We present a simplex algorithm for linear programming in a linear classification formulation. The paramount complexity parameter in linear classification problems is called the margin. We prove that for margin values of practical interest our simplex variant performs a polylogarithmic number of pivot steps in the worst case, and its overall running time is near linear. This is in contrast to general linear programming, for which no sub-polynomial pivot rule is known.
Learning with Partially Absorbing Random Walks,We propose a novel stochastic process that is with probability $\alpha_i$ being absorbed at current state $i$, and with probability $1-\alpha_i$ follows a random edge out of it. We analyze its properties and show its potential for exploring graph structures. We prove that under proper absorption rates, a random walk starting from a set $\mathcal{S}$ of low conductance will be mostly absorbed in $\mathcal{S}$. Moreover, the absorption probabilities vary slowly inside $\mathcal{S}$, while dropping sharply outside $\mathcal{S}$, thus implementing the desirable cluster assumption for graph-based learning. Remarkably, the partially absorbing process unifies many popular models arising in a variety of contexts, provides new insights into them, and makes it possible for transferring findings from one paradigm to another. Simulation results demonstrate its promising applications in graph-based learning.
Learning Probability Measures with respect to  Optimal Transport Metrics,We study the problem of estimating, in the sense of optimal transport metrics, a measure which is assumed supported on a manifold embedded in a Hilbert space. By establishing a precise connection between optimal transport metrics, optimal quantization, and learning theory, we derive new probabilistic bounds for the performance of a classic algorithm in unsupervised learning (k-means), when used to produce a probability measure derived from the data. In the course of the analysis, we arrive at new lower bounds, as well as probabilistic bounds on the convergence rate of the empirical law of large numbers, which, unlike existing bounds, are applicable to a wide class of measures.
Modeling the Forgetting Process using Image Regions,While long term human visual memory can store a remarkable amount of visual information, it tends to degrade over time. Recent works have shown that image memorability is an intrinsic property of an image that can be reliably estimated using state-of-the-art image features and machine learning algorithms. However, the class of features and image information that is forgotten over time has not been explored yet. In this work, we propose a probabilistic framework that models how and which local regions from an image may be forgotten over time, using a data-driven approach that combines local and global images features. The model automatically discovers memorability maps of individual images without any human annotation. We incorporate multiple image region attributes in our algorithm, leading to improved memorability prediction of images as compared to previous works.
High Dimensional Transelliptical Graphical Models,We advocate the use of a new distribution family--the transelliptical--for robust inference of high dimensional graphical models. The transelliptical family is an extension of the nonparanormal family proposed by Liu et al. (2009). Just as the nonparanormal extends the normal by transforming the variables using univariate functions, the transelliptical extends the elliptical family in the same way. We propose a nonparametric rank-based regularization estimator which achieves the parametric rates of convergence for both graph recovery and parameter estimation. Such a result suggests that the extra robustness and flexibility obtained by the semiparametric transelliptical modeling incurs almost no efficiency loss. Thorough numerical experiments are provided to back up our theory.
Tensor Decomposition for Fast Parsing with Latent-Variable PCFGs,We describe an approach to speed-up inference with latent variable PCFGs, which have been shown to  be highly effective for natural language parsing. Our approach is based on a tensor formulation recently introduced for spectral estimation of latent-variable PCFGs coupled with a tensor decomposition algorithm well-known in the multilinear algebra literature.  We also describe an error bound for this approximation, which bounds the difference between the probabilities calculated by the algorithm and the true probabilities that the approximated model gives. Empirical evaluation on real-world natural language parsing data demonstrates a significant speed-up at minimal cost for parsing performance.
A Better Way to Pre-Train Deep Boltzmann Machines,We describe how the pre-training algorithm for Deep Boltzmann Machines (DBMs) is related to the pre-training algorithm for Deep Belief Networks and we show that under certain conditions, the pre-training procedure improves the variational lower bound of a two-hidden-layer DBM. Based on this analysis, we develop a different method of pre-training DBMs that distributes the modelling work more evenly over the hidden layers. Our results on the MNIST and NORB datasets demonstrate that the new pre-training algorithm allows us to learn better generative models.
Phoneme Classification using Constrained Variational Gaussian Process Dynamical System,This paper describes a new acoustic model based on variational Gaussian process dynamical system (VGPDS) for phoneme classification. The proposed model overcomes the limitations of the classical HMM in modeling the real speech data, by adopting a nonlinear and nonparametric model. In our model, the GP prior on the dynamics function enables representing the complex dynamic structure of speech, while the GP prior on the emission function successfully models the global dependency over the observations. Additionally, we introduce variance constraint to the original VGPDS for mitigating sparse approximation error of the kernel matrix. The effectiveness of the proposed model is demonstrated with extensive experimental results including parameter estimation, classification performance on the synthetic and benchmark datasets.
Active Learning of Model Evidence Using Bayesian Quadrature,Numerical integration is an key component of many problems in scientific computing, statistical modelling, and machine learning. Bayesian Quadrature is a model-based method for numerical integration which, relative to standard Monte Carlo methods, offers increased sample efficiency and a more robust estimate of the uncertainty in the estimated integral. We propose a novel Bayesian Quadrature approach for numerical integration when the integrand is non-negative, such as the case of computing the marginal likelihood, predictive distribution, or normalising constant of a probabilistic model. Our approach approximately marginalises the quadrature model's hyperparameters in closed form, and introduces an active learning scheme to optimally select function evaluations, as opposed to using Monte Carlo samples. We demonstrate our method on both a number of synthetic benchmarks and a real scientific problem from astronomy.
LUCID: Locally Uniform Comparison Image Descriptor,Keypoint matching between pairs of images using popular descriptors like SIFT or a faster variant called SURF is at the heart of many computer vision algorithms including recognition, mosaicing, and structure from motion. For real-time mobile applications, very fast but less accurate descriptors like BRIEF and related methods use a random sampling of pairwise comparisons of pixel intensities in an image patch. Here, we introduce Locally Uniform Comparison Image Descriptor (LUCID), a simple description method based on permutation distances between the ordering of intensities of RGB values between two patches. LUCID is computable in linear time with respect to patch size and does not require floating point computation. An analysis reveals an underlying issue that limits the potential of BRIEF and related approaches compared to LUCID. Experiments demonstrate that LUCID is faster than BRIEF, and its accuracy is directly comparable to SURF while being more than an order of magnitude faster.
Scaling MPE Inference for Constrained Continuous Markov Random Fields with Consensus Optimization,Probabilistic graphical models are powerful tools for analyzing constrained, continuous domains. However, finding most-probable explanations (MPEs) in these models can be computationally expensive. In this paper, we improve the scalability of MPE inference in a class of graphical models with piecewise-linear and piecewise-quadratic dependencies and linear constraints over continuous domains. We derive algorithms based on a consensus-optimization framework and demonstrate their superior performance over state of the art. We show empirically that in a large-scale voter-preference modeling problem our algorithms scale linearly in the number of dependencies and constraints.
Putting Bayes to sleep,We consider sequential prediction algorithms that are given the predictions from a set of models as inputs. If the nature of the data is changing over time in that different models predict well on different segments of the data, then adaptivity is typically achieved by mixing into the weights in each round a bit of the initial prior (kind of like a weak restart). However, what if the favored models in each segment are from a small subset, i.e. the data is likely to be predicted well by models that predicted well before? Curiously, fitting such ''sparse composite models'' is achieved by mixing in a bit of all the past posteriors. This self-referential updating method is rather peculiar, but it is efficient and gives superior performance on many natural data sets. Also it is important because it introduces a long-term memory: any model that has done well in the past can be recovered quickly. While Bayesian interpretations can be found for mixing in a bit of the initial prior, no Bayesian interpretation is known for mixing in past posteriors.  We build atop the ''specialist'' framework from the online learning literature to give the Mixing Past Posteriors update a proper Bayesian foundation. We apply our method to a well-studied multitask learning problem and obtain a new intriguing efficient update that achieves a significantly better bound.
Convex Multi-view Subspace Learning,Subspace learning seeks a low dimensional representation of data that enables accurate reconstruction.  However, in many applications, data is obtained from multiple sources rather than a single source (e.g. an object might be viewed by cameras at different angles, or a document might consist of text and images).  The conditional independence of separate sources imposes constraints on their shared latent representation, which, if respected, can improve the quality of the learned low dimensional representation.  In this paper, we present a convex formulation of multi-view subspace learning that enforces conditional independence while reducing dimensionality.  For this formulation, we develop an efficient algorithm that recovers an optimal data reconstruction by exploiting an implicit convex regularizer, then recovers the corresponding latent representation and reconstruction model, jointly and optimally.  Experiments illustrate that the proposed method produces high quality results.
Entangled Monte Carlo,We propose a novel method for scalable parallelization of SMC algorithms, Entangled Monte Carlo simulation (EMC).  EMC avoids the transmission of particles between  nodes, and instead reconstructs them from the particle genealogy. In particular, we show that we can reduce the communication to the particle weights for each machine while efficiently maintaining implicit global coherence of the parallel simulation. We explain methods to efficiently maintain a genealogy of particles from which any particle can be reconstructed. We demonstrate using examples from Bayesian phylogenetic that the computational gain from parallelization using EMC significantly outweighs the cost of particle reconstruction. The timing experiments show that reconstruction of particles is indeed much more efficient as compared to transmission of particles.
Slice Normalized Dynamic Markov Logic Networks,Markov logic is a widely used tool in statistical relational learning, which uses a weighted first-order logic knowledge base to specify a Markov random field (MRF) or a conditional random field (CRF). In many applications, a Markov logic network (MLN) is trained in one domain, but used in a different one. This paper focuses on dynamic Markov logic networks, where the domain of time points typically varies between training and testing. It has been previously pointed out that the marginal probabilities of truth assignments to ground atoms can change if one extends or reduces the domains of predicates in an MLN. We show that in addition to this problem, the standard way of unrolling a Markov logic theory into a MRF may result in time-inhomogeneity of the underlying Markov chain. Furthermore, even if these representational problems are not significant for a given domain, we show that the more practical problem of generating samples in a sequential conditional random field for the next slice relying on the samples from the previous slice has high computational cost in the general case, due to the need to estimate a normalization factor for each sample. We propose a new discriminative model, slice normalized dynamic Markov logic networks (SN-DMLN), that suffers from none of these issues. It supports efficient online inference, and can directly model influences between variables within a time slice that do not have a causal direction, in contrast with fully directed models (e.g., DBNs). Experimental results show an improvement in accuracy over previous approaches to online inference in dynamic Markov logic networks.
Spectral learning of linear dynamics from generalised-linear observations with application to neural population data,Latent linear dynamical systems with generalised-linear observation models arise in a variety of applications, for example when modelling the spiking activity of populations of neurons.  Here, we show how  spectral learning methods for linear systems with Gaussian observations   (usually called subspace identification in this context) can be extended to estimate the parameters of dynamical system models observed through non-Gaussian noise models. We use this approach to obtain estimates of parameters for a dynamical model of neural population data, where the observed spike-counts are Poisson-distributed with log-rates determined by the latent dynamical process, possibly driven by external inputs. We show that the extended system identification algorithm is consistent and accurately recovers the correct parameters on large simulated data sets with much smaller computational cost than approximate expectation-maximisation (EM) due to the non-iterative nature of subspace identification. Even on smaller data sets, it provides an effective initialization for EM, leading to more robust performance and faster convergence. These benefits are shown to extend to real neural data.
Forward-Backward Activation Algorithm for Hierarchical Hidden Markov Models,Hierarchical Hidden Markov Models (HHMMs) are sophisticated stochastic models that enable us to capture a hierarchical context characterization of sequence data. However, existing HHMM parameter estimation methods require large computations of time complexity O(TN^{2D}) at least for model inference, where D is the depth of the hierarchy, N is the number of states in each level, and T is the sequence length. In this paper, we propose a new inference method of HHMMs for which the time complexity is O(TN^{D+1}). A key idea of our algorithm is application of the forward-backward algorithm to ''state activation probabilities''. The notion of a state activation, which offers a simple formalization of the hierarchical transition behavior of HHMMs, enables us to conduct model inference efficiently. We present some experiments to demonstrate that our proposed method works more efficiently to estimate HHMM parameters than do some existing methods such as the flattening method and Gibbs sampling method.
Finite Sample Convergence Rates of Zero-Order Stochastic Optimization Methods,We consider derivative-free algorithms for stochastic optimization problems that use only noisy function values rather than gradients, analyzing their finite-sample convergence rates. We show that if pairs of function values are available, algorithms that use gradient estimates based on random perturbations suffer a factor of at most $\sqrt{\dim}$ in convergence rate over traditional stochastic gradient methods, where $\dim$ is the dimension of the problem. We complement our algorithmic development with information-theoretic lower bounds on the minimax convergence rate of such problems, which show that our bounds are sharp with respect to all problem-dependent quantities: they cannot be improved by more than constant factors.
Learning Partially Observable Models Using Temporally Abstract  Decision Trees,This paper introduces timeline trees, which are partial models of partially observable environments. Timeline trees are given some specific predictions to make and learn a decision tree over history. The main idea of timeline trees is to use temporally abstract features to identify and split on features of key events, spread arbitrarily far apart in the past (whereas previous decision-tree-based methods have been limited to a finite suffix of history). Experiments demonstrate that timeline trees can learn to make high quality predictions in complex, partially observable environments with high-dimensional observations (e.g. an arcade game).
On-line Reinforcement Learning Using Incremental Kernel-Based Stochastic Factorization,The ability to learn a policy for a sequential decision problem with continuous state space using on-line data is a long-standing challenge. This paper presents a new reinforcement-learning algorithm, called iKBSF, which extends the benefits of kernel-based learning to the on-line scenario. As a kernel-based method, the proposed algorithm is stable and has good convergence properties. However, unlike other similar algorithms,iKBSF's space complexity is independent of the number of sample transitions, and as a result it can process an arbitrary amount of data. We present theoretical results showing that iKBSF can approximate (to any level of accuracy) the value function that would be learned by an equivalent batch non-parametric kernel-based reinforcement learning approximator. In order to show the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm in practice, we apply iKBSF to the challenging three-pole balancing task, where the ability to process a large number of transitions is crucial for achieving a high success rate.
Active Learning of Multi-Index Function Models,We consider the problem of actively learning \textit{multi-index} functions of the form $f(\vecx) = g(\matA\vecx)= \sum_{i=1}^k g_i(\veca_i^T\vecx)$ from point evaluations of $f$. We assume that the function $f$ is defined on an $\ell_2$-ball in $\Real^d$, $g$ is twice continuously differentiable almost everywhere, and $\matA \in \mathbb{R}^{k \times d}$ is a rank $k$ matrix, where $k \ll d$.  We propose a randomized, active sampling scheme for estimating such functions with uniform approximation guarantees. Our theoretical developments leverage recent techniques from low rank matrix recovery, which enables us to derive an estimator of the function $f$ along with sample complexity bounds. We also characterize the noise robustness of the scheme, and provide empirical evidence that the high-dimensional scaling of our sample complexity bounds are quite accurate.
Emergence of Object-Selective Features in Unsupervised Feature Learning,Recent work in unsupervised feature learning has focused on the goal   of discovering high-level features from unlabeled images.  Much   progress has been made in this direction, but in most cases it is   still standard to use a large amount of labeled data in order to   construct detectors sensitive to object classes or other complex   patterns in the data.  In this paper, we aim to test the hypothesis   that unsupervised feature learning methods, provided with only   unlabeled data, can learn high-level, invariant features that are   sensitive to commonly-occurring objects.  Though a handful of prior   results suggest that this is possible when each object class   accounts for a large fraction of the data (as in many labeled   datasets), it is unclear whether something similar can be   accomplished when dealing with completely unlabeled data.  A major   obstacle to this test, however, is scale: we cannot expect to   succeed with small datasets or with small numbers of learned   features.  Here, we propose a large-scale feature learning system   that enables us to carry out this experiment, learning 150,000   features from tens of millions of unlabeled images.  Based on two   scalable clustering algorithms (K-means and agglomerative   clustering), we find that our simple system can discover features   sensitive to a commonly occurring object class (human faces) and can   also combine these into detectors invariant to significant global   distortions like large translations and scale.
Fast Resampling Weighted v-Statistics,In this paper, a novel, computationally fast, and alternative algorithm for com- puting weighted v-statistics in resampling both univariate and multivariate data is proposed. To avoid any real resampling, we have linked this problem with finite group action and converted it into a problem of orbit enumeration. For further computational cost reduction, an efficient method is developed to list all orbits by their symmetry order and calculate all index function orbit sums and data function orbit sums recursively. The computational complexity analysis shows reduction in the computational cost from n! or nn level to low-order polynomial level.
Perfect Dimensionality Recovery by Variational Bayesian PCA,The variational Bayesian (VB) approach is one of the best tractable approximations to the Bayesian estimation, and it was demonstrated to perform well in many applications. However, its good performance was not fully understood theoretically. For example, VB sometimes produces a sparse solution, which is regarded as a practical advantage of VB, but such sparsity is hardly observed in the rigorous Bayesian estimation. In this paper, we focus on probabilistic PCA and give more theoretical insight into the empirical success of VB. More specifically, for the situation where the noise variance is unknown, we derive a sufficient condition for perfect recovery of the true PCA dimensionality in the large-scale limit when the size of an observed matrix goes to infinity. In our analysis, we obtain bounds for a noise variance estimator and simple closed-form solutions for other parameters, which themselves are actually very useful for better implementation of VB-PCA.
Minimization of Continuous Bethe Approximations: A Positive Variation,We develop convergent minimization algorithms for Bethe variational approximations which explicitly constrain marginal estimates to families of valid distributions.  While existing message passing algorithms define fixed point iterations corresponding to stationary points of the Bethe free energy, their greedy dynamics do not distinguish between local minima and maxima, and can fail to converge. For continuous estimation problems, this instability is linked to the creation of invalid marginal estimates, such as Gaussians with negative variance. Conversely, our approach leverages multiplier methods with well-understood convergence properties, and uses bound projection methods to ensure that marginal approximations are valid at all iterations. We derive general algorithms for discrete and Gaussian pairwise Markov random fields, showing improvements over standard loopy belief propagation. We also apply our method to a hybrid model with both discrete and continuous variables, showing improvements over expectation propagation.
Continuous Relaxations for Discrete Hamiltonian Monte Carlo,Continuous relaxations play an important role in discrete optimization, but have not seen much use in approximate probabilistic inference. Here we show that a general form of the Gaussian Integral Trick makes it possible to transform a wide class of discrete variable undirected models into fully continuous systems. The continuous representation allows the use of gradient-based Hamiltonian Monte Carlo for inference,  results in new ways of estimating normalization constants (partition functions), and in general opens up a number of new avenues for inference in difficult discrete systems. We demonstrate some of these continuous relaxation inference algorithms on a number of illustrative problems.
Adaptive Stratified Sampling for Monte-Carlo integration of Differentiable functions,We consider the problem of adaptive stratified sampling for Monte Carlo integration of a differentiable function given a finite number of evaluations to the function. We construct a sampling scheme that samples more often in regions where the function oscillates more, while allocating the samples such that they are well spread on the domain (this notion shares similitude with low discrepancy). We prove that the estimate returned by the algorithm is almost as accurate as the estimate that an optimal oracle strategy (that would know the variations of the function everywhere) would return, and we provide a finite-sample analysis.
Spectral Learning of General Weighted Automata via Constrained Matrix Completion,Many tasks in text and speech processing and computational biology involve functions from variable-length strings to real numbers. A wide class of such functions can be computed by weighted automata. Spectral methods based on singular value decompositions of Hankel matrices have been recently proposed for learning probability distributions over strings that can be computed by weighted automata. In this paper we show how this method can be applied to the problem of learning a general weighted automata from a sample of string-label pairs generated by an arbitrary distribution. The main obstruction to this approach is that in general some entries of the Hankel matrix that needs to be decomposed may be missing. We propose a solution based on solving a constrained matrix completion problem. Combining these two ingredients, a whole new family of algorithms for learning general weighted automata is obtained. Generalization bounds for a particular algorithm in this class are given. The proofs rely on a stability analysis of matrix completion and spectral learning.
Learning with Target Prior,In the conventional approaches for supervised parametric learning, relations between data and target variables are provided through training sets consisting of pairs of corresponded data and target variables. In this work, we describe a new learning scheme for parametric learning, in which the target variables $\y$ can be modeled with a prior model $p(\y)$ and the relations between data and target variables are estimated through $p(\y)$ and a set of uncorresponded data $\x$ in training. We term this method as learning with target priors (LTP). Specifically, LTP learning seeks parameter $\t$ that maximizes the log likelihood of $f_\t(\x)$ on a uncorresponded training set with regards to $p(\y)$. Compared to the conventional (semi)supervised learning approach, LTP can make efficient use of prior knowledge of the target variables in the form of probabilistic distributions, and thus removes/reduces the reliance on training data in learning. Compared to the Bayesian approach, the learned parametric regressor in LTP can be more efficiently implemented and deployed in tasks where running efficiency is critical, such as on-line BCI signal decoding. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach on parametric regression tasks for BCI signal decoding and pose estimation from video.
Multimodal Learning with Deep Boltzmann Machines,We propose a Deep Boltzmann Machine for learning a generative model of multimodal data. We show how to use the model to extract a meaningful representation of multimodal data. We find that the learned representation is useful for classification and information retreival tasks, and hence conforms to some notion of semantic similarity. The model defines a probability density over the space of multimodal inputs. By sampling from the conditional distributions over each data modality, it possible to create the representation even when some data modalities are missing. Our experimental results on bi-modal data consisting of images and text show that the Multimodal DBM can learn a good generative model of the joint space of image and text inputs that is useful for information retrieval from both unimodal and multimodal queries. We further demonstrate that our model can significantly outperform SVMs and LDA on discriminative tasks. Finally, we compare our model to other deep learning methods, including autoencoders and deep belief networks, and show that it achieves significant gains.
Accelerated Training for Matrix-norm Regularization: A Boosting Approach,Sparse learning models typically combine a smooth loss with a nonsmooth penalty, such as trace norm. Although recent developments in sparse approximation have offered promising solution methods, current approaches either apply only to matrix-norm constrained problems or provide suboptimal convergence rates. In this paper, we propose a boosting method for regularized learning that guarantees $\epsilon$ accuracy within $O(1/\epsilon)$ iterations. Performance is further accelerated by interlacing boosting with fixed-rank local optimization---exploiting a simpler local objective than previous work. The proposed method yields state-of-the-art performance on large-scale problems. We also demonstrate an application to latent multiview learning for which we provide the first efficient weak-oracle.
Deep Representations and Codes for Image Auto-Annotation,The task of assigning a set of relevant tags to an image is challenging due to the size and variability of tag vocabularies. Consequently, most existing algorithms focus on tag assignment and fix an often large number of hand-crafted features to describe image characteristics. In this paper we introduce a hierarchical model for learning representations of full sized color images from the pixel level, removing the need for engineered feature representations and subsequent feature selection. We benchmark our model on the STL-10 recognition dataset, achieving state-of-the-art performance. When our features are combined with TagProp (Guillaumin et al.), we outperform or compete with existing annotation approaches that use over a dozen distinct image descriptors. Furthermore, using 256-bit codes and Hamming distance for training TagProp, we exchange only a small reduction in performance for efficient storage and fast comparisons. In our experiments, using deeper architectures always outperform shallow ones.
Max-Margin Structured Output Regression for Spatio-Temporal Action Localization,Structured output learning has been successfully applied to object localization, where the mapping between an image and an object bounding box can be well captured. Its extension to action localization in videos, however, is much more challenging, because one needs to predict the locations of the action patterns both spatially and temporally, i.e., identifying a sequence of bounding boxes that track the action in video. The problem becomes intractable due to the exponentially large size of the structured video space where actions could occur. We propose a novel structured learning approach for spatio-temporal action localization. The mapping between a video and a spatio-temporal action trajectory is learned. The intractable inference and learning problems are addressed by leveraging an efficient Max-Path search method, thus makes it feasible to optimize the model over the whole structured space. Experiments on two challenging benchmark datasets show that our proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
Multiplicative Forests for Continuous-Time Processes,Learning temporal dependencies between variables over continuous time is an important and challenging task. Continuous-time Bayesian networks effectively model such processes but are limited by the number of conditional intensity matrices, which grows exponentially in the number of parents per variable. We develop a partition-based representation using regression trees and forests whose parameter spaces grow linearly in the number of node splits. Using a multiplicative assumption we show how to update the forest likelihood in closed form, producing efficient model updates. Our results show multiplicative forests can be learned from few temporal trajectories with large gains in performance and scalability.
Latent Graphical Model Selection: Efficient Methods for Locally Tree-like Graphs,Graphical model selection refers to the problem of estimating the unknown graph structure given observations at the nodes in the model. We consider a challenging instance of this problem when some of the nodes are latent or hidden.  We  characterize  conditions for tractable graph estimation and develop efficient methods with provable guarantees. We consider the class of Ising models Markov on  locally tree-like graphs, which are in the regime of correlation decay. We  propose an efficient method for graph estimation, and establish its structural consistency when the number of samples $n$ scales as $n = \Omega(\theta_{\min}^{-\delta \eta(\eta+1)-2}\log p)$, where $\theta_{\min}$ is the minimum edge potential, $\delta$ is the depth (i.e., distance from a hidden node to the nearest  observed nodes), and $\eta$ is a parameter which depends on the minimum and maximum node and edge potentials in the Ising model. The proposed method is practical to implement and provides  flexibility to control  the number of latent variables and the cycle lengths in the output graph.  We also present necessary conditions for graph estimation by any method and show that our method nearly matches the lower bound  on sample requirements.
Bayesian Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning,We describe an approach to incorporating Bayesian priors in the maxq framework for hierarchical reinforcement learning (HRL). We define priors on the primitive environment model and on task pseudo-rewards. Since models for composite tasks can be complex, we use a mixed model-based/model-free learning approach to find an optimal hierarchical policy. We show empirically that (i) our approach results in improved convergence over non-Bayesian baselines, given sensible priors, (ii) task hierarchies and Bayesian priors can be complementary sources of information, and using both sources is better than either alone, (iii) taking advantage of the structural decomposition induced by the task hierarchy significantly reduces the computational cost of Bayesian reinforcement learning and (iv) in this framework, task pseudo-rewards can be learned instead of being manually specified, leading to automatic learning of hierarchically optimal rather than recursively optimal policies.
Causal discovery with scale-mixture model for spatiotemporal variance dependencies,In conventional causal discovery, structural equation models (SEM) are directly applied to the observed variables, meaning that the causal effect can be represented as a function of the direct causes themselves. However, in many real world problems, there are significant dependencies in the variances or energies, which indicates that causality may possibly take place at the level of variances or energies. In this paper, we propose a probabilistic causal scale-mixture model with spatiotemporal variance dependencies to represent a specific type of generating mechanism of the observations. In particular, the causal mechanism including contemporaneous and temporal causal relations in variances or energies is represented by a Structural Vector AutoRegressive model (SVAR). We prove the identifiability of this model under the non-Gaussian assumption on the innovation processes. We also propose algorithms to estimate the involved parameters and discover the contemporaneous causal structure. Experiments on synthesis and real world data are conducted to show the applicability of the proposed model and algorithms.
Learning High-Density Regions for a Generalized Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test in High-Dimensional Data,We propose an efficient, generalized, nonparametric, statistical Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for detecting distributional change in high-dimensional data. To implement the test, we introduce a novel, hierarchical, minimum-volume sets estimator to represent the distributions to be tested. Our work is motivated by the need to detect changes in data streams, and the test is especially efficient in this context. We provide the theoretical foundations of our test and show its superiority over existing methods.
Localizing 3D cuboids in single-view images,In this paper we seek to detect rectangular cuboids and localize their corners in uncalibrated single-view images depicting everyday scenes. In contrast to recent approaches that rely on detecting vanishing points of the scene and grouping line segments to form cuboids, we build a discriminative parts-based detector that models the appearance of the cuboid corners and internal edges while enforcing consistency to a 3D cuboid model. Our model is invariant to the different 3D viewpoints and aspect ratios and is able to detect cuboids across many different object categories. We introduce a database of images with cuboid annotations that spans a variety of indoor and outdoor scenes and show qualitative and quantitative results on our collected database. Our model out-performs baseline detectors that use 2D constraints alone on the task of localizing cuboid corners.
Semi-supervised Eigenvectors for Locally-biased Learning,In many applications, one has information, e.g., labels that are  provided in a semi-supervised manner, about a specific target region of a  large data set, and one wants to perform machine learning and data analysis  tasks nearby that pre-specified target region.   Locally-biased problems of this sort are particularly challenging for  popular eigenvector-based machine learning and data analysis tools. At root, the reason is that eigenvectors are inherently global quantities. In this paper, we address this issue by providing a methodology to construct  semi-supervised eigenvectors of a graph Laplacian, and we illustrate  how these locally-biased eigenvectors can be used to perform  locally-biased machine learning. These semi-supervised eigenvectors capture successively-orthogonalized  directions of maximum variance, conditioned on being well-correlated with an  input seed set of nodes that is assumed to be provided in a semi-supervised  manner. We also provide several empirical examples demonstrating how these  semi-supervised eigenvectors can be used to perform locally-biased learning.
Analyzing 3D Objects in Cluttered Images,We present an approach to detecting and analyzing the 3D configuration of objects in real-world images with heavy occlusion and clutter. We focus on the application of finding and analyzing cars. We do so with a two-stage model; the first stage reasons about 2D shape and appearance variation due to within-class variation(station wagons look different than sedans) and changes in viewpoint. Rather than using a view-based model, we describe a compositional representation that models a large number of effective views and shapes using a small number of local view-based templates. We use this model to propose candidate detections and 2D estimates of shape. These estimates are then refined by our second stage, using an explicit 3D model of shape and viewpoint. We use a morphable model to capture 3D within-class variation, and use a weak-perspective camera model to capture viewpoint. We learn all model parameters from 2D annotations. We demonstrate state-of-the-art accuracy for detection, viewpoint estimation, and 3D shape reconstruction on challenging images from the PASCAL VOC 2011 dataset.
Fast Variational Inference in the Conjugate Exponential Family,We present a general method for deriving collapsed variational inference algorithms for probabilistic models in the conjugate exponential family. Our method unifies many existing approaches to collapsed variational inference. Our collapsed variational inference leads to a new lower bound on the marginal likelihood. We exploit the information geometry of the bound to derive much faster optimization methods based on conjugate gradients for these models. Our approach is very general and is easily applied to any model where the mean field update equations have been derived. Empirically we show significant speed-ups for probabilistic models optimized using our bound.
Density Propagation and Improved Bounds on the Partition Function,Given a probabilistic graphical model, its density of states is a function that, for any likelihood value, gives the number of configurations with that probability. We introduce a novel message-passing algorithm called Density Propagation (DP) for estimating this function. We show that DP is exact for tree-structured graphical models and is, in general, a strict generalization of both sum-product and max-product algorithms. Further, we use density of states and tree decomposition to introduce a new family of upper and lower bounds on the partition function. For any tree decompostion, the new upper bound based on finer-grained density of state information is provably at least as tight as previously known bounds based on convexity of the log-partition function, and strictly stronger if a general condition holds. We conclude with empirical evidence of improvement over convex relaxations and mean-field based bounds.
Volume Regularization for Binary Classification,We introduce a large-volume box classification for binary   prediction, which maintains a subset of weight vectors, and   specifically axis-aligned boxes. Our learning algorithm seeks for a   box of large volume that contains ``simple'' weight vectors which   most of are accurate on the training set. Two versions of the   learning process are cast as convex optimization problems, and it   is shown how to solve them efficiently.  The formulation yields a   natural PAC-Bayesian performance bound and it is shown to minimize a   quantity directly aligned with it. The algorithm outperforms SVM and   the recently proposed AROW algorithm on a majority of $30$ NLP   datasets and binarized USPS optical character recognition datasets.
Approximating Equilibria in Sequential Auctions with Incomplete Information and Multi-Unit Demand,In many large economic markets, goods are sold through sequential auctions. Such domains include eBay, online ad auctions, wireless spectrum auctions, and the Dutch flower auctions. Bidders in these domains face highly complex decision-making problems, as their preferences for outcomes in one auction often depend on the outcomes of other auctions, and bidders have limited information about factors that drive outcomes, such as other bidders' preferences and past actions.   In this work, we formulate the bidder's problem as one of price prediction (i.e., learning) and optimization. We define the concept of stable price predictions and show that (approximate) equilibrium in sequential auctions can be characterized as a profile of strategies that (approximately) optimize with respect to such (approximately) stable price predictions. We show how equilibria found with our formulation compare to known theoretical equilibria for simpler auction domains, and we find new approximate equilibria for a more complex auction domain where analytical solutions were heretofore unknown.
High Dimensional Semiparametric Scale-invariant Principal Component Analysis,We propose a high dimensional semiparametric scale-invariant principal component analysis, named Copula Component Analysis (COCA). The semiparametric model assumes that, after unspecified marginally monotone transformations, the distributions are multivariate Gaussian. The COCA accordingly estimates the leading eigenvector of the correlation matrix of the latent Gaussian distribution. The robust nonparametric rank-based correlation coefficient estimator, Spearmans rho, is exploited in estimation. We prove that, although the marginal distributions can be arbitrarily continuous, the COCA estimators obtain fast estimation rates and are feature selection consistent in the setting where the dimension is nearly exponentially large relative to the sample size. Careful numerical experiments on the simulated data are conducted under both ideal and noisy settings, which suggest that the COCA loses little even when the data are truely Gaussian. The COCA is also implemented on a large-scale genomic data to illustrate its empirical usefulness.
Repulsive Mixtures,Discrete mixtures are used routinely in broad sweeping applications ranging from unsupervised settings to fully supervised multi-task learning.  Indeed, finite mixtures and infinite mixtures, relying on Dirichlet processes and modifications, have become a standard tool.  One important issue that arises in using discrete mixtures is low separation in the components; in particular, different components can be introduced that are very similar and hence redundant.   Such redundancy leads to too many clusters that are too similar, degrading performance in unsupervised learning and leading to computational problems and an unnecessarily complex model in supervised settings.  Redundancy can arise in the absence of a penalty on components placed close together even when a Bayesian approach is used to learn the number of components.  To solve this problem, we propose a novel prior that generates components from a repulsive process, automatically penalizing redundant components.  We characterize this repulsive prior theoretically and propose a Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling algorithm for posterior computation.  The methods are illustrated using synthetic examples and an iris data set.
Approximating Concavely Parameterized Optimization Problems,We consider an abstract class of optimization problems that are parameterized concavely in a single parameter, and show that the solution path along the parameter can always be approximated with accuracy $\varepsilon >0$ by a set of size $O(1/\sqrt{\varepsilon})$. A lower bound of size $\Omega (1/\sqrt{\varepsilon})$ shows that the upper bound is tight up to a constant factor. We also devise an algorithm that calls a step-size oracle and computes an approximate path of size $O(1/\sqrt{\varepsilon})$. Finally, we provide an implementation of the oracle for soft-margin support vector machines, and a parameterized semi-definite program for matrix completion.
Multi-criteria Anomaly Detection using Pareto Depth Analysis,We consider the problem of identifying patterns in a data set that exhibit anomalous behavior, often referred to as anomaly detection. In most anomaly detection algorithms, the dissimilarity between data samples is calculated by a single criterion, such as Euclidean distance. However, in many cases there may not exist a single dissimilarity measure that captures all possible anomalous patterns. In such a case, multiple criteria can be defined, and one can test for anomalies by scalarizing the multiple criteria by taking some linear combination of them. If the importance of the different criteria are not known in advance, the algorithm may need to be executed multiple times with different choices of weights in the linear combination. In this paper, we introduce a novel non-parametric multi-criteria anomaly detection method using Pareto depth analysis (PDA). PDA uses the concept of Pareto optimality to detect anomalies under multiple criteria without having to run an algorithm multiple times with different choices of weights. The proposed PDA approach scales linearly in the number of criteria and is provably better than linear combinations of the criteria.
Unsupervised template learning for fine-grained object recognition,Fine-grained recognition refers to a subordinate level of recognition, such are recognizing different species of birds, animals or plants. It differs from recognition of basic categories, such as humans, tables, and computers, in that there are global similarities in shape or structure shared within a category, and the differences are in the details of the object parts. We suggest that the key to identifying the fine-grained differences lies in finding the right alignment of image regions that contain the same object parts. We propose a template model for the purpose, which captures common shape patterns of object parts, as well as the co-occurence relation of the shape patterns. Once the image regions are aligned, extracted features are used for classification. Learning of the template model is efficient, and the recognition results we achieve significantly outperform the state-of-the-art algorithms.
A systematic approach to extracting semantic information from functional MRI data,This paper introduces a novel classification method for functional magnetic resonance imaging datasets with tens of classes. The method is designed to make predictions using information from as many brain locations as possible, instead of resorting to feature selection, and does this by decomposing the pattern of brain activation into differently informative sub-regions. We provide results over a complex semantic processing dataset that show that the method is competitive with state-of-the-art feature selection and also suggest how the method may be used to perform group or exploratory analyses of complex class structure.
Semi-Supervised Domain Adaptation with Non-Parametric Copulas,A new framework based on the theory of copulas is proposed to address semi-supervised domain adaptation problems. The presented method factorizes any multivariate density into a product of marginal distributions and bivariate copula functions. Therefore, changes in each of these factors can be detected and corrected to adapt a density model across different learning domains. Importantly, we introduce a novel vine copula model, which allows for this factorization in a non-parametric manner. Experimental results on regression problems with real-world data illustrate the efficacy of the proposed approach when compared to state-of-the-art techniques.
Optimal Regularized Dual Averaging Methods for Stochastic Optimization,This paper considers a wide spectrum of regularized stochastic optimization problems where both the loss function and regularizer can be non-smooth.  We develop a novel algorithm based on the regularized dual averaging (RDA) method, that can simultaneously achieve the optimal convergence rates for both convex and strongly convex loss. In particular, for strongly convex loss, it achieves the optimal  rate of $O(\frac{1}{N}+\frac{1}{N^2})$ for $N$  iterations, which improves the best known rate $O(\frac{\log N }{N})$ of previous stochastic dual averaging algorithms. In addition, our method constructs the final solution directly from the proximal mapping instead of averaging of all previous iterates. For widely used sparsity-inducing regularizers (e.g., $\ell_1$-norm), it has the advantage of encouraging sparser solutions. We further develop a multi-stage extension using the proposed algorithm as a subroutine, which achieves the uniformly-optimal rate $O(\frac{1}{N}+\exp\{-N\})$ for strongly convex loss.
Convergence Rate Analysis of MAP Coordinate Minimization Algorithms,Finding maximum aposteriori (MAP) assignments in graphical models is an important task in many applications. Since the problem is generally hard, linear programming (LP) relaxations are often used. Solving these relaxations efficiently is thus an important practical problem. In recent years, several authors have proposed message passing updates corresponding to coordinate descent in the dual LP. However,these are generally not guaranteed to converge to a global optimum. One approach to remedy this is to smooth the LP, and perform coordinate descent on the smoothed dual. However, little is known about the convergence rate of this procedure. Here we perform a thorough rate analysis of such schemes and derive primal and dual convergence rates. We also provide a simple dual to primal mapping that yields feasible primal solutions with a guaranteed rate of convergence. Empirical evaluation supports our theoretical claims and shows that the method is highly competitive with state of the art approaches that yield global optima.
Learning about Canonical Views from Internet Image Collections,Although human object recognition is supposedly robust to viewpoint, much research on human perception indicates that there is a preferred or canonical view of objects. This phenomenon was discovered more than 30 years ago but the canonical view of only a small number of categories has been validated experimentally. Moreover, the explanation for why humans prefer the canonical view over other views remains elusive. In this paper we ask: Can we use Internet image collections to learn more about canonical views? We start by manually finding the most common view in the results returned by Internet search engines when queried with the objects used in psychophysical experiments. Our results clearly show that the most likely view in the search engine corresponds to the same view preferred by human subjects in experiments. We also present a simple method to find the most likely view in an image collection and apply it to hundreds of categories. Using the new data we have collected we present strong evidence against the two most prominent formal theories of canonical views and provide novel constraints for new theories.
Fast Bayesian Inference for Non-Conjugate Gaussian Process Regression,We present a new variational inference algorithm for Gaussian processes with non-conjugate likelihood functions. This includes binary and multi-class classification, as well as ordinal regression. Our method constructs a convex lower bound, which can be optimized by using an efficient fixed point update method. We then show empirically that our new approach is much faster than existing methods without any degradation in performance.
Minimizing Sparse High-Order Energies by Submodular Vertex-Cover,Inference on high-order graphical models has become increasingly important in recent years.  We consider energies with simple 'sparse' high-order potentials.  Previous work in this area uses either specialized message-passing  or transforms each high-order potential to the pairwise case. We take a fundamentally different approach, transforming the entire original problem into a comparatively small instance of a submodular vertex-cover problem. These vertex-cover instances can then be attacked by standard pairwise methods, where they run much faster (4--15 times) and are often more effective than on the original problem. We evaluate our approach on synthetic data, and we show that our algorithm can be useful in a fast hierarchical clustering and model estimation framework.
A Geometric take on Metric Learning,Multi-metric learning techniques learn local metric tensors in different parts of a feature space. With such an approach, even simple classifiers can be competitive with the state-of-the-art because the distance measure locally adapts to the structure of the data. The learned distance measure is, however, non-metric, which has prevented multi-metric learning from generalizing to tasks such as dimensionality reduction and regression in a principled way. We prove that, with appropriate changes, multi-metric learning corresponds to learning the structure of a Riemannian manifold. We then show that this structure gives us a principled way to perform dimensionality reduction and regression according to the learned metrics. Algorithmically, we provide the first practical algorithm for computing geodesics according to the learned metrics, as well as algorithms for computing exponential and logarithmic maps on the Riemannian manifold. Together, these tools let many Euclidean algorithms take advantage of multi-metric learning. We illustrate the approach on regression and dimensionality reduction tasks that involve predicting measurements of the human body from shape data.
From Deformations to Parts: Motion-based Segmentation of 3D Objects,We develop a method for discovering the parts of an articulated object from aligned meshes capturing various three-dimensional (3D) poses.  We adapt the distance dependent Chinese restaurant process (ddCRP) to allow nonparametric discovery of a potentially unbounded number of parts, while simultaneously guaranteeing a spatially connected segmentation.  To allow analysis of datasets in which object instances have varying shapes, we model part variability across poses via affine transformations.  By placing a matrix normal-inverse-Wishart prior on these affine transformations, we develop a ddCRP Gibbs sampler which tractably marginalizes over transformation uncertainty.  Analyzing a dataset of humans captured in dozens of poses, we infer parts which provide quantitatively better motion predictions than conventional clustering methods.
Diffusion Decision Making for Adaptive k-Nearest Neighbor Classification,This paper sheds light on some fundamental connections of the diffusion decision making model of neuroscience and cognitive psychology with k-nearest neighbor classification.  We show that conventional k-nearest neighbor classification can be viewed as a special problem of the diffusion decision model in the asymptotic situation.  Applying the optimal strategy associated with the diffusion decision model, an adaptive rule is developed for determining appropriate values of k in k-nearest neighbor classification.  Making use of the sequential probability ratio test (SPRT) and Bayesian analysis, we propose five different criteria for adaptively acquiring nearest neighbors.  Experiments with both synthetic and real datasets demonstrate the effectivness of our classification criteria.
Fully Bayesian inference for neural models with negative-binomial spiking,Characterizing the information carried by neural populations in the brain requires accurate statistical models of neural spike responses.  The negative-binomial distribution provides a convenient model for over-dispersed spike counts, that is, responses with greater-than-Poisson variability.  Here we describe a powerful data-augmentation framework for fully Bayesian inference in neural models with negative-binomial spiking. Our approach relies on a recently described latent-variable representation of the negative-binomial distribution, which equates it to a Polya-gamma mixture of normals.  This framework provides a tractable, conditionally Gaussian representation of the posterior that can be used to design efficient EM and Gibbs sampling based algorithms for inference in regression and dynamic factor models.  We apply the model to neural data from primate retina and show that it substantially outperforms Poisson regression on held-out data, and reveals latent structure underlying spike count correlations in simultaneously recorded spike trains.
Small-Variance Asymptotics for Exponential Family Dirichlet Process Mixture Models,Links between probabilistic and non-probabilistic learning algorithms can arise by performing small-variance asymptotics, i.e., letting the variance of particular distributions in a graphical model go to zero. For instance, in the context of clustering, such an approach yields precise connections between the k-means and EM algorithms.  In this paper, we explore small-variance asymptotics for exponential family Dirichlet process (DP) and hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP) mixture models.  Utilizing connections between exponential family distributions and Bregman divergences, we derive novel clustering algorithms from the asymptotic limit of the DP and HDP mixtures that feature the scalability of existing hard clustering methods as well as the flexibility of Bayesian nonparametric models.  We focus on special cases of our analysis for discrete-data problems, including topic modeling, and we demonstrate the utility of our results by applying variants of our algorithms to problems arising in vision and document analysis.
Visual Recognition using Embedded Feature Selection for Curvature Self-Similarity,Category-level object detection has a crucial need for informative object representations. This demand has led to feature descriptors of ever increasing dimensionality  like co-occurrence statistics and self-similarity. In this paper we propose a new object representation based on curvature self-similarity that goes beyond the currently popular  approximation of objects using straight lines. However, like all descriptors using second order statistics, ours also exhibits a high dimensionality. Although improving discriminability,  the high dimensionality becomes a critical issue due to lack of generalization ability and curse of dimensionality. Given only a limited amount of training data, even sophisticated  learning algorithms such as the popular kernel methods are not able to suppress noisy or superfluous dimensions of such high-dimensional data. Consequently, there is a natural need for  feature selection when using present-day informative features and, particularly, curvature self-similarity. We therefore suggest an embedded feature selection method for SVMs that  reduces complexity and improves generalization capability of object models. By successfully integrating the proposed curvature self-similarity representation together with the embedded  feature selection in a widely used state-of-the-art object detection framework we show the general pertinence of the approach.
On Triangular versus Edge Representations --- Towards Scalable Modeling of Networks,In this paper, we argue for representing networks as a bag of {\it triangular motifs}, particularly for important network problems that current model-based approaches handle poorly due to computational bottlenecks incurred by using edge representations. Such approaches require both 1-edges and 0-edges (missing edges) to be provided as input, and as a consequence, approximate inference algorithms for these models usually require $\Omega(N^2)$ time per iteration, precluding their application to larger real-world networks. In contrast, triangular modeling requires less computation, while providing equivalent or better inference quality. A triangular motif is a vertex triple containing 2 or 3 edges, and the number of such motifs is $\Theta(\sum_{i}D_{i}^{2})$ (where $D_i$ is the degree of vertex $i$), which is much smaller than $N^2$ for low-maximum-degree networks. Using this representation, we develop a novel mixed-membership network model and approximate inference algorithm suitable for large networks with low max-degree. For networks with high maximum degree, the triangular motifs can be naturally subsampled in a {\it node-centric} fashion, allowing for much faster inference at a small cost in accuracy. Empirically, we demonstrate that our approach, when compared to that of an edge-based model, has faster runtime and improved accuracy for mixed-membership community detection. We conclude with a large-scale demonstration on an $N\approx 280,000$-node network, which is infeasible for network models with $\Omega(N^2)$ inference cost.
A Spectral Algorithm for Latent Dirichlet Allocation,Topic modeling is a generalization of clustering that posits that observations (words in a document) are generated by \emph{multiple} latent factors (topics), as opposed to just one. This increased representational power comes at the cost of a more challenging unsupervised learning problem of estimating the topic-word distributions when only words are observed, and the topics are hidden.  This work provides a simple and efficient learning procedure that is guaranteed to recover the parameters for a wide class of topic models, including Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). For LDA, the procedure correctly recovers both the topic-word distributions and the parameters of the Dirichlet prior over the topic mixtures, using only trigram statistics (\emph{i.e.}, third order moments, which may be estimated with documents containing just three words). The method, called Excess Correlation Analysis, is based on a spectral decomposition of low-order moments via two singular value decompositions (SVDs). Moreover, the algorithm is scalable, since the SVDs are carried out only on $k \times k$ matrices, where $k$ is the number of latent factors (topics) and is typically much smaller than the dimension of the observation (word) space.
Privacy Aware Learning,We study statistical risk minimization problems under a version of privacy in which the data is kept confidential even from the learner.  In this local privacy framework, we show sharp upper and lower bounds on the convergence rates of statistical estimation procedures. As a consequence, we exhibit a precise tradeoff between the amount of privacy the data preserves and the utility, measured by convergence rate, of any statistical estimator.
Near-Optimal MAP Inference for Determinantal Point Processes,Determinantal point processes (DPPs) have recently been proposed as   computationally efficient probabilistic models of diverse sets for a   variety of applications, including document summarization, image   search, and pose estimation.  Many DPP inference operations,   including normalization and sampling, are tractable; however,   finding the most likely configuration (MAP), which is often required   in practice for decoding, is NP-hard, so we must resort to   approximate inference.  Because DPP probabilities are   log-submodular, greedy algorithms have been used in the past with   some empirical success; however, these methods only give   approximation guarantees in the special case of DPPs with monotone   kernels.  In this paper we propose a new algorithm for approximating   the MAP problem based on continuous techniques for submodular   function maximization.  Our method involves a novel continuous   relaxation of the log-probability function, which, in contrast to   the multilinear extension used for general submodular functions, can   be evaluated and differentiated exactly and efficiently.  We obtain   a practical algorithm with a 1/4-approximation guarantee for a   general class of non-monotone DPPs.  Our algorithm also extends to   MAP inference under complex polytope constraints, making it possible   to combine DPPs with Markov random fields, weighted matchings, and   other models.  We demonstrate that our approach outperforms greedy   methods on both synthetic and real-world data.
Dynamic Pruning of Factor Graphs for Maximum Marginal Prediction,We study the problem of maximum marginal prediction (MMP) in probabilistic graphical models, a task that occurs, for example, as the Bayes optimal decision rule under a Hamming loss. MMP is typically performed as a two-stage procedure: one estimates each variable's marginal probability and then forms a prediction from the states of maximal probability. In this work we propose a simple yet effective technique for accelerating MMP when inference is sampling-based: instead of the above two-stage procedure we directly estimate the posterior probability of each decision variable. This allows us to identify the point of time when we are sufficiently certain about any individual decision. Whenever this is the case, we dynamically prune the variable we are confident about from the underlying factor graph. Consequently, at any time only samples of variable whose decision is still uncertain need to be created. Experiments in two prototypical scenarios, multi-label classification and image inpainting, shows that adaptive sampling can drastically accelerate MMP without sacrificing prediction accuracy.
Priors for Diversity in Generative Latent Variable Models,Probabilistic latent variable models are one of the cornerstones of machine learning.  They offer a convenient and coherent way to specify prior distributions over unobserved structure in data, so that these unknown properties can be inferred via posterior inference.  Such models are useful for exploratory analysis and visualization, for building density models of data, and for   providing features that can be used for later discriminative tasks. A significant limitation of these models, however, is that draws from the prior are often highly redundant due to i.i.d. assumptions   on internal parameters.  For example, there is no preference in the prior of a mixture model to make components non-overlapping, or in topic model to ensure that co-ocurring words only appear in a small number of topics.  In this work, we revisit these independence assumptions for probabilistic latent variable models, replacing the   underlying i.i.d.\ prior with a determinantal point process (DPP). The DPP allows us to specify a preference for diversity in our latent variables using a positive definite kernel function.  Using a kernel between probability distributions, we are able to define a DPP on probability measures.  We show how to perform MAP inference   with DPP priors in latent Dirichlet allocation and in mixture models, leading to better intuition for the latent variable representation and quantitatively improved unsupervised feature extraction, without compromising the generative aspects of the model.
Large Scale Distributed Deep Networks,Recent work in unsupervised feature learning and deep learning has shown that  being able to train large models can dramatically improve performance.  In this  paper, we consider the problem of training a deep network with billions of  parameters using tens of thousands of CPU cores.  We have developed a  software framework called DistBelief that can utilize computing clusters  with thousands of machines to train large models.  Within this framework, we  have developed two algorithms for large-scale distributed training: (i) Downpour  SGD, an asynchronous stochastic gradient descent procedure supporting a  large number of model replicas, and (ii) Sandblaster, a framework that supports  for a variety of distributed batch optimization procedures, including a distributed  implementation of L-BFGS.  Downpour SGD and Sandblaster L-BFGS both  increase the scale and speed of deep network training.  We have successfully  used our system to train a deep network 100x larger than previously reported in  the literature, and achieves state-of-the-art performance on ImageNet, a visual  object recognition task with 16 million images and 21k categories.  We show that  these same techniques dramatically accelerate the training of a more modestly  sized deep network for a commercial speech recognition service. Although we  focus on and report performance of these methods as applied to training large  neural networks, the underlying algorithms are applicable to any gradient-based  machine learning algorithm.
Confusion-Based Online Learning and a Passive-Aggressive Scheme,This paper provides the first ---to the best of our knowledge--- analysis of online learning algorithms for multiclass problems when the {\em confusion} matrix is taken as a performance measure. The work builds upon recent and elegant results on noncommutative concentration inequalities, i.e. concentration inequalities that apply to matrices, and more precisely to matrix martingales.  We do establish generalization bounds for online learning algorithm and show how the theoretical study motivate the proposition of a new confusion-friendly learning procedure. This learning algorithm, called \copa (for COnfusion Passive-Aggressive) is a passive-aggressive learning algorithm; it is shown that the update equations for \copa can be computed analytically, thus allowing the user from having to recours to any optimization package to implement it.
Unsupervised Structure Discovery for Semantic Analysis of Audio,Approaches to audio classification and retrieval tasks largely rely on detection-based discriminative models. We submit that such models make a simplistic assumption in mapping acoustics directly to semantics, whereas the actual process is likely more complex. We present a generative model that maps acoustics in a hierarchical manner to increasingly higher-level semantics. Our model has 2 layers with the first being generic sound units with no clear semantic associations, while the second layer attempts to find patterns over the generic sound units. We evaluate our model on a large-scale retrieval task from TRECVID 2011, and report significant improvements over standard baselines.
Modelling Reciprocating Relationships with Hawkes processes,We present a Bayesian nonparametric model that discovers implicit social structure from interaction time-series data. Social groups are often formed implicitly, through actions among members of groups. Yet many models of social networks use explicitly declared relationships to infer social structure. We consider a particular class of Hawkes processes, a doubly stochastic point process, that is able to model reciprocity between groups of individuals. We then extend the Infinite Relational Model by using these reciprocating Hawkes processes to parameterise its edges, making events associated with edges co-dependent through time. Our model outperforms general, unstructured Hawkes processes as well as structured Poisson process-based models at predicting verbal and email turn-taking, and military conflicts among nations.
A nonparametric variable clustering model,Factor analysis models effectively summarise the covariance structure of high dimensional data, but the solutions are typically hard to interpret. This motivates attempting to find a disjoint partition, i.e. a clustering, of observed variables so that variables in a cluster are highly correlated. We introduce a Bayesian non-parametric approach to this problem, and demonstrate advantages over heuristic methods proposed to date.
Identifiability and Unmixing of Latent Parse Trees,This paper explores unsupervised learning of parsing models along two directions.  First, which models are identifiable from infinite data?  We use a general technique for numerically checking identifiability based on the rank of a Jacobian matrix, and apply it to several standard constituency and dependency parsing models.  Second, for identifiable models, how do we estimate the parameters efficiently?  EM suffers from local optima, while recent work using spectral methods cannot be directly applied since the topology of the parse tree varies across sentences.  We develop a strategy, unmixing, which deals with this additional complexity for restricted classes of parsing models.
Scalable Inference of Overlapping Communities,We develop a scalable algorithm for posterior inference of overlapping communities in large networks.  Our algorithm is based on stochastic variational inference in the mixed-membership stochastic blockmodel. It naturally interleaves subsampling the network with estimating its community structure.  We apply our algorithm on ten large, real-world networks with up to 60,000 nodes. It converges several orders of magnitude faster than the state-of-the-art algorithm for MMSB, finds hundreds of communities in large real-world networks, and detects the true communities in 280 benchmark networks with equal or better accuracy compared to other scalable algorithms.
Kernel Hyperalignment,We offer a regularized, kernel extension of the multi-set, orthogonal Procrustes problem, or hyperalignment. Our new method, called Kernel Hyperalignment, expands the scope of hyperalignment to include nonlinear measures of similarity and enables the alignment of multiple datasets with a large number of base features. With direct application to fMRI data analysis, kernel hyperalignment is well-suited for multi-subject alignment of large ROIs, including the entire cortex. We conducted experiments using real-world, multi-subject fMRI data.
High-Order Multi-Task Feature Learning to Identify Longitudinal Phenotypic Markers for Alzheimer Disease Progression Prediction,Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. Regression analysis has been studied to relate neuroimaging measures to cognitive status. However, whether these measures have further predictive power to infer a trajectory of cognitive performance over time is still an under-explored but important topic in AD research. We propose a novel high-order multi-task learning model to address this issue. The proposed model explores the temporal correlations existing in data features and regression tasks by the structured sparsity-inducing norms. In addition, the sparsity of the model enables the selection of a small number of MRI measures while maintaining high prediction accuracy. The empirical studies, using the baseline MRI and serial cognitive data of the ADNI cohort, have yielded promising results.
A latent factor model for highly multi-relational data,Many data such as social networks, movie preferences or knowledge bases are multi-relational, in that they describe multiple relationships between entities. While there is a large body of work focused on modeling these data, few considered modeling these multiple types of relationships jointly. Further, existing approaches tend to breakdown when the number of these types grows. In this paper, we propose a method for modeling large multi-relational datasets, with possibly thousands of relations. Our model is based on a bilinear structure, which captures the various orders of interaction of the data, but also shares sparse latent factors across different relations. We illustrate the performance of our approach on standard tensor-factorization datasets where we attain, or outperform, state-of-the-art results. Finally, a NLP application demonstrates our scalability and the ability of our model to learn efficient, and semantically meaningful verb representations.
Multi-task Vector Field Learning,Multi-task learning (MTL) aims to improve generalization performance by learning multiple related tasks simultaneously and identifying the shared information among tasks. Most of existing MTL methods focus on learning linear models under the supervised setting. We propose a novel semi-supervised and nonlinear approach for MTL using vector fields. A vector field is a smooth mapping from the manifold to the tangent spaces which can be viewed as a directional derivative of functions on the manifold. We argue that vector fields provide a natural way to exploit the geometric structure of data as well as the shared differential structure of tasks, both are crucial for semi-supervised multi-task learning. In this paper, we develop multi-task vector field learning (MTVFL) which learns the prediction functions and the vector fields simultaneously. MTVFL has the following key properties: (1) the vector fields we learned are close to the gradient fields of the prediction functions; (2) within each task, the vector field is required to be as parallel as possible which is expected to span a low dimensional subspace; (3) the vector fields from all tasks share a low dimensional subspace. We formalize our idea in a regularization framework and also provide a convex relaxation method to solve the original non-convex problem. The experimental results on synthetic and real data demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach.
Fiedler Random Fields: A Large-Scale Spectral Approach to Statistical Network Modeling,Statistical models for networks have been typically committed to strong prior assumptions concerning the form of the modeled distributions. Moreover, the vast majority of currently available models are explicitly designed for capturing some specific graph properties (such as power-law degree distributions), which makes them unsuitable for application to domains where the behavior of the target quantities is not known a priori. The key contribution of this paper is twofold. First, we introduce the Fiedler delta statistic, based on the Laplacian spectrum of graphs, which allows to dispense with any parametric assumption concerning the modeled network properties. Second, we use the defined statistic to develop the Fiedler random field model, which allows for efficient estimation of edge distributions over large-scale random networks. After analyzing the dependence structure involved in Fiedler random fields, we estimate them over several real-world networks, showing that they achieve a much higher modeling accuracy than other well-known statistical approaches.
Sketch-Based Linear Value Function Approximation,Hashing is a common method to reduce large, potentially infinite feature vectors to a fixed-size table. In reinforcement learning, hashing is often used in conjunction with tile coding to represent states in continuous spaces. Hashing is also a promising approach to value function approximation in large discrete domains such as Go and Hearts, where feature vectors can be constructed by exhaustively combining a set of atomic features. Unfortunately, the typical use of hashing in value function approximation results in biased value estimates due to the possibility of collisions. Recent work in data stream summaries has led to the development of the tug-of-war sketch, an unbiased estimator for approximating inner products. Our work investigates the application of this new data structure to linear value function approximation. Although in the reinforcement learning setting the use of the tug-of-war sketch leads to biased value estimates, we show that this bias can be orders of magnitude less than that of standard hashing. We provide empirical results on two RL benchmark domains and fifty-five Atari 2600 games to highlight the superior learning performance of tug-of-war hashing.
Symmetric Correspondence Topic Models for Multilingual Text Analysis,Topic modeling is a widely used approach to analyzing large text collections. A small number of multilingual topic models have recently been explored to discover latent topics among parallel or comparable documents, such as in Wikipedia. Other topic models that were originally proposed for structured data are also applicable to multilingual documents. Correspondence Latent Dirichlet Allocation (CorrLDA) is one such model; however, it requires a pivot language to be specified in advance. We propose a new topic model, Symmetric Correspondence LDA (SymCorrLDA), that incorporates a hidden variable to control a pivot language, in an extension of CorrLDA. We experimented with two multilingual comparable datasets extracted from Wikipedia and demonstrate that SymCorrLDA is more effective than some other existing multilingual topic models.
Feature-aware Label Space Dimension Reduction for Multi-label Classification,Label space dimension reduction (LSDR) is an efficient and effective paradigm for multi-label classification with many classes. Existing approaches to LSDR, such as compressive sensing and principal label space transformation, exploit only the label part of the dataset, but not the feature part. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to LSDR that considers both the label and the feature parts. The approach, called conditional principal label space transformation, is based on minimizing an upper bound of the popular Hamming loss. The minimization step of the approach can be carried out efficiently by a simple use of singular value decomposition. In addition, the approach can be extended to a kernelized version that allows the use of sophisticated feature combinations to assist LSDR. The experimental results verify that the proposed approach is more effective than existing ones to LSDR across many real-world datasets.
Augmented-SVM: Automatic space partitioning for combining multiple non-linear dynamics,Non-linear dynamical systems (DS) have been used extensively for building generative models of human behavior. Its applications range from modeling brain dynamics  to encoding motor commands. Many schemes have been proposed for encoding robot motions using dynamical systems with a single attractor placed at a predefined target in state space. Although these enable the robots to react against sudden perturbations without any re-planning, the motions are always directed towards a single target. In this work, we focus on combining several such DS with distinct attractors, resulting in a multi-stable DS. We show its applicability in reach-to-grasp tasks where the attractors represent several grasping points on the target object. While exploiting multiple attractors provides more flexibility in recovering from unseen perturbations, it also increases the complexity of the underlying learning problem. Here we present the Augmented-SVM (A-SVM) model which inherits region partitioning ability of the well known SVM classifier and is augmented with novel constraints derived from the individual DS. The new constraints modify the original SVM dual whose optimal solution then results in a new class of support vectors (SV). These new SV ensure that the resulting multi-stable DS incurs minimum deviation from the original dynamics and is stable at each of the attractors within a finite region of attraction. We show, via implementations on a simulated 10 degrees of freedom mobile robotic platform, that the model is capable of real-time motion generation and is able to adapt on-the-fly to perturbations.
Dimensionality Dependent PAC-Bayes Margin Bound,Margin is one of the most important concepts in machine learning. Previous margin bounds, both for SVM and for boosting, are dimensionality independent. A major advantage of this dimensionality independency is that it can explain the excellent performance of SVM whose feature spaces are often of high or infinite dimension. In this paper we address the problem whether such dimensionality independency is intrinsic for the margin bounds. We prove a dimensionality dependent PAC-Bayes margin bound. The bound is monotone increasing with respect to the dimension when keeping all other factors fixed. We show that our bound is strictly sharper than a previously well-known PAC-Bayes margin bound if the feature space is of finite dimension; and the two bounds tend to be equivalent as the dimension goes to infinity. In addition, we show that the VC bound for linear classifiers can be recovered from our bound under mild conditions. We conduct extensive experiments on benchmark datasets and find that the new bound is useful for model selection and is significantly sharper than the dimensionality independent PAC-Bayes margin bound as well as the VC bound for linear classifiers.
The variational hierarchical EM algorithm for clustering hidden Markov models.,In this paper, we derive a novel algorithm to cluster  hidden Markov models (HMMs) according to their probability distributions. We propose a variational hierarchical EM algorithm that i) clusters a given collection of HMMs into groups of HMMs that are similar, in terms of the distributions they represent, and ii) characterizes each group by a ``cluster center'', i.e., a novel HMM that is representative for the group. We illustrate the benefits of the proposed algorithm on hierarchical clustering of motion capture sequences as well as on automatic music tagging.
Topology Constraints in Graphical Models,Graphical models are a very useful tool to describe and understand natural phenomena, from gene expression to climate change and social interactions. The topological structure of these graphs/networks is a fundamental part of the analysis, and in many cases the main goal of the study. However, little work has been done on incorporating prior topological knowledge onto the estimation of the underlying graphical models from sample data. In this work we propose extensions to the basic joint regression model for network estimation, which explicitly incorporate graph-topological constraints into the corresponding optimization approach. The first proposed extension includes an eigenvector centrality constraint, thereby promoting this important prior topological property. The second developed extension promotes the formation of certain motifs, triangle-shaped ones in particular, which are known to exist for example in genetic regulatory networks. The presentation of the underlying formulations, which serve as examples of the introduction of topological constraints in network estimation, is complemented with examples in diverse datasets demonstrating the importance of incorporating such critical prior knowledge.
A Linear Time Active Learning Algorithm for Link Classification,We present very efficient active learning algorithms for link classification in signed networks. Our algorithms are motivated by a stochastic model in which edge labels are obtained through perturbations of a initial sign assignment consistent with a two-clustering of the nodes. We provide a theoretical analysis within this model, showing that we can achieve an optimal (to whithin a constant factor) number of mistakes on any graph $G = (V,E)$ such that $|E|$ is at least order of $|V|^{3/2}$ by querying at most order of $|V|^{3/2}$ edge labels. More generally, we show an algorithm that achieves optimality to within a factor of order $k$ by querying at most order of $|V| + (|V|/k)^{3/2}$ edge labels. The running time of this algorithm is at most of order $|E| + |V|\log|V|$.
Learning Mixtures of Tree Graphical Models,We consider  unsupervised estimation of mixtures of discrete graphical models, where the class variable   is hidden and each mixture component  can have a potentially different Markov graph structure and parameters over the observed variables. We propose a novel method for estimating the mixture components with  provable guarantees.   Our output is   a tree-mixture model which serves as a good approximation to the underlying graphical model mixture. The   sample and computational requirements for our method scale as $\poly(p,  r)$,   for an $r$-component mixture of $p$-variate graphical models, for a wide class of models which includes tree mixtures and mixtures over bounded degree graphs.
No voodoo here! Learning discrete graphical models via inverse covariance estimation,We investigate the relationship between the support of the inverses of generalized covariance matrices and the structure of a discrete graphical model. We show that for certain graph structures, the support of the inverse covariance matrix of indicator variables on the vertices of a graph reflects the conditional independence structure of the graph. Our work extends results which were previously established only for multivariate Gaussian distributions, and partially answers an open question about the meaning of the inverse covariance matrix of a non-Gaussian distribution. We propose graph selection methods for a general discrete graphical model with bounded degree based on possibly corrupted observations, and verify our theoretical results via simulations. Along the way, we also establish new results for support recovery in the setting of sparse high-dimensional linear regression based on corrupted and missing observations.
Bayesian Pedigree Analysis using Measure Factorization,Pedigrees, or family trees, are directed graphs used to identify sites of the genome that are correlated with the presence or absence of a disease.  With the advent of genotyping and sequencing technologies, there has been an explosion in the amount of data available, both in the number of individuals and in the number of sites.  Some pedigrees number in the thousands of individuals.  Meanwhile, analysis methods have remained limited to pedigrees of <100 individuals which limits analyses to many small independent pedigrees.  Disease models, such those used for the linkage analysis log-odds (LOD) estimator, have similarly been limited.  This is because linkage anlysis was originally designed with a different task in mind, that of ordering the sites in the genome, before there were technologies that could reveal the order.  LODs are difficult to interpret and nontrivial to extend to consider interactions among sites.  These developments and difficulties call for the creation of modern methods of pedigree analysis.  Drawing from recent advances in graphical model inference and transducer theory, we introduce a simple yet powerful formalism for expressing genetic disease models.   We show that these disease models can be turned into accurate and efficient estimators.  The technique we use for constructing the variational approximation has potential applications to inference in other large-scale graphical models.  This method allows inference on larger pedigrees than previously analyzed in the literature, which improves disease site prediction.
Variational Inference for Crowdsourcing,Crowdsourcing has become a popular paradigm for labeling large datasets. However, it has given rise to the computational task of aggregating the crowdsourced labels provided by a collection of unreliable annotators. We approach this problem by transforming it into a standard inference problem in graphical models, and applying approximate variational methods, including belief propagation (BP) and mean field (MF). We show that our BP algorithm generalizes both majority voting and a recent algorithm by Karger et al, while our MF method is closely related to a commonly used EM algorithm. In both cases, we find that the performance of the algorithms critically depends on the choice of a prior distribution on the workers' reliability; by choosing the prior properly, both BP and MF (and EM) perform surprisingly well on both simulated and real-world datasets, competitive with state-of-the-art algorithms based on more complicated modeling assumptions.
Optimal Neural Tuning Curves for Arbitrary Stimulus Distributions: Discrimax, Infomax and Minimum $L_p$ Loss,In this work we study how the stimulus distribution influences the optimal coding of an individual neuron. Closed-form solutions to the optimal sigmoidal tuning curve are provided for a neuron obeying Poisson statistics under a given stimulus distribution. We consider a variety of optimality criteria, including maximizing discriminability, maximizing mutual information and minimizing estimation error under a general $L_p$ norm.  We generalize the Cramer-Rao lower bound and show how the $L_p$ loss can be written as a functional of the Fisher Information in the asymptotic limit, by proving the moment convergence of certain functions of Poisson random variables.  In this manner, we show how the optimal tuning curve depends upon the loss function, and the equivalence of maximizing mutual information with minimizing $L_p$ loss in the limit as $p$ goes to zero.
Probabilistic Event Cascades for Alzheimer's disease,Accurate and detailed models of the progression of neurodegenerative diseases such as  Alzheimer's (AD) are crucially important for reliable early diagnosis and the determination and deployment of effective treatments. In this paper, we introduce the ALPACA (Alzheimer's disease Probabilistic Cascades) model, a generative model linking latent Alzheimer's progression dynamics to observable biomarker data. In contrast with previous works which model disease progression as a fixed ordering of events, we explicitly model the variability over such orderings among patients which is more realistic, particularly for highly detailed disease progression models. We describe efficient learning algorithms for ALPACA and discuss promising experimental results on a real cohort of Alzheimer's patients from the  Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.
On the (Non-)existence of Convex, Calibrated Surrogate  Losses for Ranking,We study surrogate losses for learning to rank, in a framework where the rankings are induced by scores and the task is to learn the scoring function. We focus on the calibration of surrogate losses with respect to a ranking evaluation metric, where the calibration is equivalent to the guarantee that near-optimal values of the surrogate risk imply near-optimal values of the risk defined by the evaluation metric. We prove that if a surrogate loss is a convex function of the scores, then it is not calibrated with respect to two evaluation metrics widely used for search engine evaluation, namely the Average Precision and the Expected Reciprocal Rank. We also show that such convex surrogate losses cannot be calibrated with respect to the Pairwise Disagreement, an evaluation metric used when learning from pairwise preferences. Our results cast lights on the intrinsic difficulty of some ranking problems, as well as on the limitations of learning-to-rank algorithms based on the minimization of a convex surrogate risk.
A new metric on the manifold of kernel matrices with application to matrix geometric means,Symmetric positive definite (spd) matrices are remarkably pervasive in a multitude of scientific disciplines, including machine learning and optimization. We consider the fundamental task of measuring distances between two spd matrices; a task that is often nontrivial whenever an application demands the distance function to respect the non-Euclidean geometry of spd matrices. Unfortunately, typical non-Euclidean distance measures such as the Riemannian metric $\riem(X,Y)=\frob{\log(X\inv{Y})}$, are computationally demanding and also complicated to use. To allay some of these difficulties, we introduce a new metric on spd matrices: this metric not only respects non-Euclidean geometry, it also offers faster computation than $\riem$ while being less complicated to use. We support our claims theoretically via a series of theorems that relate our metric to $\riem(X,Y)$, and experimentally by studying the nonconvex problem of computing matrix geometric means based on squared distances.
Majorization for CRFs and Latent Likelihoods,The partition function plays a key role in probabilistic modeling including conditional random fields, graphical models, and maximum likelihood estimation. To optimize partition functions, this article introduces a quadratic variational upper bound. This inequality facilitates majorization methods: optimization of complicated functions through the iterative solution of simpler sub-problems. Such bounds remain efficient to compute even when the partition function involves a graphical model (with small tree-width) or in latent likelihood settings. For large-scale problems, low-rank versions of the bound are provided and outperform LBFGS as well as first-order methods. Several learning applications are shown and reduce to fast and convergent update rules. Experimental results show advantages over state-of-the-art optimization methods.
Augment-and-Conquer Negative Binomial Processes,By developing data augmentation methods unique to the negative binomial (NB) distribution, we unite seemingly disjoint count and mixture models  under the  NB process framework. We develop fundamental properties of the models and derive efficient Gibbs sampling inference. We show that the  gamma-NB process can be reduced to the hierarchical Dirichlet process with normalization, highlighting its unique theoretical, structural and computational advantages. A variety of NB processes with distinct sharing mechanisms are constructed and applied to topic modeling, with connections to existing algorithms, showing the importance of inferring both the NB dispersion and probability parameters.
A Unifying Perspective of Parametric Policy Search Methods for Markov Decision Processes,Parametric policy search algorithms are one of the methods of choice for the optimisation of Markov Decision Processes, with Expectation Maximisation and natural gradient ascent being considered the current state of the art in the field. In this article we provide a unifying perspective of these two algorithms by showing that their step-directions in the parameter space are closely related to the search direction of an approximate Newton method. This analysis leads naturally to the consideration of this approximate Newton method as an alternative gradient-based method for Markov Decision Processes. We are able show that the algorithm has numerous desirable properties, absent in the naive application of Newton's method, that make it a viable alternative to either Expectation Maximisation or natural gradient ascent. Empirical results suggest that the algorithm has excellent convergence and robustness properties, performing strongly in comparison to both Expectation Maximisation and natural gradient ascent.
Co-Regularized Hashing for Multimodal Data,Hashing-based methods provide a very promising approach to large-scale similarity search.  To obtain compact hash codes, a recent trend seeks to learn the hash functions from data automatically.  In this paper, we study hash function learning in the context of multimodal data.  We propose a novel multimodal hash function learning method, called Co-Regularized Hashing (CRH), based on a boosted co-regularization framework.  The hash functions for each bit of the hash codes are learned by solving DC (difference of convex functions) programs, while the learning for multiple bits proceeds via a boosting procedure so that the bias introduced by the hash functions can be sequentially minimized.  We empirically compare CRH with two state-of-the-art multimodal hash function learning methods on two publicly available data sets.
Communication-Efficient Algorithms for Statistical Optimization,We study two communication-efficient algorithms for distributed statistical optimization on large-scale data. The first algorithm is an averaging method that distributes the $N$ data samples evenly to $m$ machines, performs separate minimization on each subset, and then averages the estimates.  We provide a sharp analysis of this average mixture algorithm, showing that under a reasonable set of conditions, the combined parameter achieves mean-squared error that decays as $\order(N^{-1}+(N/m)^{-2})$. Whenever $m \le \sqrt{N}$, this guarantee matches the best possible rate achievable by a centralized algorithm having access to all $N$ samples.  The second algorithm is a novel method, based on an appropriate form of the bootstrap.  Requiring only a single round of communication, it has mean-squared error that decays as $\order(N^{-1}+(N/m)^{-3})$, and so is more robust to the amount of parallelization. We complement our theoretical results with experiments on large-scale problems from the Microsoft Learning to Rank dataset.
FastEx: Fast Clustering with Exponential Families,Clustering is a key component in data analysis toolbox. Despite its   importance, scalable algorithms often eschew rich statistical models   in favor of simpler descriptions such as $k$-means clustering. In   this paper we present a sampler, capable of estimating   mixtures of exponential families. At its heart lies a novel proposal distribution using random   projections to achieve high throughput in generating proposals, which is crucial   for clustering models with large numbers of clusters.
Label Ranking with Partial Abstention based on Thresholded Probabilistic Models,Several machine learning methods allow for abstaining from uncertain predictions. While being common for settings like conventional classification, abstention has been studied much less in learning to rank. We address abstention for the label ranking setting, allowing the learner to declare certain pairs of labels as being incomparable and, thus, to predict partial instead of total orders. In our method, such predictions are produced via thresholding the probabilities of pairwise preferences between labels, as induced by a predicted probability distribution on the set of all rankings. We formally analyze this approach for the Mallows and the Plackett-Luce model, showing that it produces proper partial orders as predictions and characterizing the expressiveness of the induced class of partial orders. These theoretical results are complemented by experiments demonstrating the practical usefulness of the approach.
Best Arm Identification: A Unified Approach to Fixed Budget and Fixed Confidence,We study the problem of identifying the best arm(s) in the stochastic multi-armed bandit setting. This problem has been studied in the literature from two different perspectives: fixed budget and fixed confidence. We propose a unifying approach that leads to a meta-algorithm called unified gap-based exploration (UGapE), with a common structure and similar theoretical analysis for these two settings. We prove a performance bound for the two versions of the algorithm showing that the two problems are characterized by the same notion of complexity. We also show how the UGapE algorithm as well as its theoretical analysis can be extended to take into account the variance of the arms and to multiple bandits. Finally, we evaluate the performance of UGapE and compare it with a number of existing fixed budget and fixed confidence algorithms.
Automatic Feature Induction for Stagewise Collaborative Filtering,Recent approaches to collaborative filtering have concentrated on estimating an algebraic or statistical model, and using the model for predicting missing ratings. In this paper we observe that different models have relative advantages in different regions of the input space. This motivates our approach of using stagewise linear combinations of collaborative filtering algorithms, with non-constant combination coefficients based on kernel smoothing. The resulting stagewise model is computationally scalable and outperforms a wide selection of state-of-the-art collaborative filtering algorithms.
A Convex Formulation for Learning Scale-Free Networks via Submodular Relaxation,A key problem in statistics and machine learning is the determination of network structure from data. We consider the case where the structure of the graph to be reconstructed is known to be scale-free. We show that in such cases it is natural to formulate structured sparsity inducing priors using submodular functions, and we use their Lovasz extension to obtain a convex relaxation. For tractable classes such as Gaussian graphical models, this leads to a convex optimization problem that can be efficiently solved. We show that our method results in an improvement in the accuracy of reconstructed networks for synthetic data. We also show how our prior encourages scale-free reconstructions on a bioinfomatics dataset.
Multilabel Classification using Bayesian Compressed Sensing,In this paper, we present a Bayesian framework for multilabel classification using compressed sensing. The key idea in compressed sensing for multilabel classification is to first project the label vector to a lower dimensional space using a random transformation and then learn regression functions over these projections. Our approach considers both of these components in a single probabilistic model, thereby jointly optimizing over compression as well as learning tasks. We then derive an efficient variational inference scheme that provides joint posterior distribution over all the unobserved labels. The two key benefits of the model are that a) it can naturally handle datasets that have  missing labels and b) it can also measure uncertainty in prediction. The uncertainty estimate provided by the model naturally allows for active learning paradigms where an oracle provides information about labels that promise to be maximally informative for the prediction task. Our experiments show significant boost over prior methods in terms of prediction performance over benchmark datasets, both in the fully labeled and the missing labels case.  Finally, we also highlight various useful active learning scenarios that are enabled by the probabilistic model.
Probabilistic Topic Coding for Superset Label Learning,In the superset label learning problem, each training instance provides a set of candidate labels of which one is the true label of the instance.  Most approaches learn a discriminative classifier that tries to minimize an upper bound of the unobserved 0/1 loss. In this work, we propose a probabilistic model, Probabilistic Topic Coding (PTC), for the superset label learning problem. The PTC model is derived from logistic stick breaking process. It first maps the data to ``topics'', and then assigns to each topic a label drawn from a multinomial distribution.  The layer of topics can capture underlying structure in the data, which is very useful when the model is weakly supervised. This advantage comes at little cost, since the model introduces few additional parameters. Experimental tests on several real-world problems with superset labels show results that are competitive or superior to the state of the art.  The discovered underlying structures also provide improved explanations of the classification predictions.
Affine Independent Variational Inference,We present a method for approximate inference for a broad class of non-conjugate probabilistic models. In particular, for the family of generalized linear model target densities we describe a rich class of variational approximating densities which can be best fit to the target by minimizing the Kullback-Leibler divergence.  Our approach is based on using the Fourier representation which we show results in efficient and scalable inference.
Efficient high dimensional maximum entropy modeling via symmetric partition functions,The application of the maximum entropy principle to sequence   modeling has been popularized by methods such as Conditional Random   Fields (CRFs).  However, these approaches are generally limited to   modeling paths in discrete spaces of low dimensionality.  We   consider the problem of modeling distributions over paths in   continuous spaces of high dimensionality---a problem for which   inference is generally intractable.  Our main contribution is to   show that maximum entropy modeling of high-dimensional, continuous   paths is tractable as long as the constrained features    possess a certain kind of low dimensional structure.   In this case, we show that the associated {\em partition function} is   symmetric and that this symmetry can be exploited to compute the   partition function efficiently in a compressed form.  Empirical   results are given showing an application of our method to maximum   entropy modeling of high dimensional human motion capture data.
Transferring Expectations in Model-based Reinforcement Learning,We study how to automatically select and adapt multiple abstractions or representations of the world to support model-based reinforcement learning. We address the challenges of transfer learning in heterogeneous environments with varying tasks. We present an efficient, online framework that, through a sequence of tasks, learns a set of relevant representations to be used in future tasks. Without pre-defined mapping strategies, we introduce a general approach to support transfer learning across different state spaces. We demonstrate the potential impact of our system through improved jumpstart and faster convergence to near optimum policy in two benchmark domains.
Learning as MAP Inference in Discrete Graphical Models,We present a new formulation for attacking binary classification problems. Instead of relying on convex losses and regularisers such as in SVMs, logistic regression and boosting, or instead non-convex but continuous formulations such as those encountered in neural networks and deep belief networks, our framework entails a non-convex but \emph{discrete} formulation, where estimation amounts to finding a MAP configuration in a graphical model whose potential functions are low-dimensional discrete surrogates for the misclassification loss. We argue that such a discrete formulation can naturally account for a number of issues that are typically encountered in either the convex or the continuous non-convex paradigms, or both. By reducing the learning problem to a MAP inference problem, we can immediately translate the guarantees available for many inference settings to the learning problem itself. We empirically demonstrate in a number of experiments that this approach is promising in dealing with issues such as severe label noise, while still having global optimality guarantees. Due to the discrete nature of the formulation, it also allows for \emph{direct} regularisation through cardinality-based penalties, such as the $\ell_0$ pseudo-norm, thus providing the ability to perform feature selection and trade-off interpretability and predictability in a principled manner. We also outline a number of open problems arising from the formulation.
Discriminative Learning of Sum-Product Networks,Sum-product networks are a new deep architecture that can perform fast, exact inference on high-treewidth models. Only generative methods for training SPNs have been proposed to date. In this paper, we present the first discriminative training algorithms for SPNs, combining the high accuracy of the former with the representational power and tractability of the latter. We show that the class of tractable discriminative SPNs is broader than the class of tractable generative ones, and propose an efficient backpropagation-style algorithm for computing the gradient of the conditional log likelihood. Standard gradient descent suffers from the diffusion problem, but networks with many layers can be learned reliably using ''hard'' gradient descent, where marginal inference is replaced by MPE inference (i.e., inferring the most probable state of the non-evidence variables). The resulting updates have a simple and intuitive form. We test discriminative SPNs on standard image classification tasks. We obtain the best results to date on the CIFAR-10  dataset, using fewer features than prior methods with an SPN architecture that learns local image structure discriminatively. We also report the highest published test accuracy on STL-10 even though we only use the labeled portion of the dataset.
Structured learning of Gaussian graphical models,We consider estimation of multiple high-dimensional Gaussian graphical models corresponding to a single set of nodes under several distinct conditions. We assume that most aspects of the networks are shared, but that there are some structured differences between them. Specifically, the network differences are generated from node perturbations: a few nodes are perturbed across networks, and most or all edges stemming from such nodes differ between networks. This corresponds to a simple model for the mechanism underlying many cancers, in which the gene regulatory network is disrupted  due to the aberrant activity of a few specific genes. We propose to solve this problem using the structured joint graphical lasso, a convex optimization problem that is based upon the use of a novel symmetric overlap norm penalty, which we solve using  an alternating directions method of multipliers algorithm. Our proposal is illustrated on synthetic data and on an application to brain cancer gene expression data.
Random Utility Theory for Social Choice: Theory and Algorithms,Random utility theory models an agent's preferences on alternatives by drawing a real-valued score on each alternative (typically independently) from a parameterized distribution, and then ranking according to scores. A special case that has received significant attention is the Plackett-Luce model, for which fast inference methods for maximum likelihood estimators are available. This paper develops conditions on general, random utility models that enable fast inference within a Bayesian framework through MC-EM, providing unimodal log-likelihood functions. Results on both real-world and simulated data provide support for the scalability of the approach, despite its flexibility.
Simultaneously Leveraging Output and Task Structures  for Multiple-Output Regression,Multiple-output regression models require estimating multiple functions, one for each output. To improve parameter estimation in such models, methods based on structural regularization of the model parameters are usually needed. In this paper, we present a multiple-output regression model that leverages the covariance structure of the functions (i.e., how the multiple functions are related with each other) as well as the conditional covariance structure of the outputs. This is in contrast with existing methods that usually take into account only one of these structures. More importantly, unlike most of the other existing methods, none of these structures need be known a priori in our model, and are learned from the data. Several previously proposed structural regularization based  multiple-output regression models turn out to be special cases of our model. Moreover, in addition to being a rich model for multiple-output regression, our model can also be used in estimating the graphical model structure of a set of variables (multivariate outputs) conditioned on another set of variables (inputs). Experimental results on both synthetic and real datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
Effective Split-Merge Monte Carlo Methods for Nonparametric Models of Sequential Data,Applications of Bayesian nonparametric methods require learning and inference algorithms which efficiently explore models of unbounded complexity. We develop new Markov chain Monte Carlo methods for the beta process hidden Markov model (BP-HMM), enabling discovery of shared activity patterns in large video and motion capture databases. By introducing split-merge moves based on sequential allocation, we allow large global changes in the shared feature structure. We also develop data-driven reversible jump moves which more reliably discover rare or unique behaviors. Our proposals apply to any choice of conjugate likelihood for observed data, and we show success with multinomial, Gaussian, and autoregressive emission models. Together, these innovations allow tractable analysis of hundreds of time series, where previous inference required clever initialization and at least ten thousand burn-in iterations for just six sequences.
Distributed Probabilistic Learning for Camera Networks with Missing Data,Probabilistic approaches to computer vision typically assume a centralized setting, with the algorithm granted access to all observed data points.  However, many problems in wide-area surveillance can benefit from distributed modeling, either because of physical or computational constraints.  Most distributed models to date use algebraic approaches (such as distributed SVD) and as a result cannot explicitly deal with missing data.  In this work we present an approach to estimation and learning of generative probabilistic models in a distributed context where certain sensor data can be missing.  In particular, we show how traditional centralized models, such as probabilistic PCA and missing-data PPCA, can be learned when the data is distributed across a network of sensors.  We demonstrate the utility of this approach on the problem of distributed affine structure from motion.  Our experiments suggest that the accuracy of the learned probabilistic structure and motion models rivals that of traditional centralized factorization methods while being able to handle challenging situations such as missing or noisy observations.
Factorial LDA: Sparse Multi-Dimensional Text Models,Multi-dimensional latent variable models can capture the many latent factors in a text corpus, such as topic, author perspective and sentiment. We introduce factorial LDA, a multi-dimensional latent variable model in which a document is influenced by K different factors, and each word token depends on a K-dimensional vector of latent variables. Our model incorporates structured word priors and learns a sparse product of factors. Experiments on research abstracts show that our model can learn latent factors such as research topic, scientific discipline, and focus (e.g. methods vs. applications.) Our modeling improvements reduce test perplexity and improve human interpretability of the discovered factors.
Bayesian nonparametric models for ranked data,We develop a Bayesian nonparametric extension of the popular Plackett-Luce choice model that can handle an infinite number of choice items.   Our framework is based on the theory of random atomic measures, with the prior specified by a gamma process.  We derive a posterior characterization and a simple and effective Gibbs sampler for posterior simulation.  We then develop a time-varying extension of our model, and apply our model to the New York Times lists of weekly bestselling books.
Adaptive Learning of Smoothing Functions: Application to Electricity Load Forecasting,This paper proposes an efficient online learning algorithm to track the smoothing functions of Additive Models. The key idea is to combine the linear representation of Additive Models with a Recursive Least Squares (RLS) filter. In order to quickly track changes in the model and put more weight on recent data, the RLS filter uses a forgetting factor which exponentially weights down observations by the order of their arrival. The tracking behaviour is further enhanced by using an adaptive forgetting factor which is updated based on the gradient of the a priori errors. Using results from Lyapunov stability theory, upper bounds for the learning rate are analyzed. The proposed algorithm is applied to 5 years of electricity load data provided by the French utility company Electricite de France (EDF). Compared to state-of-the-art methods, it achieves a superior performance in terms of model tracking and prediction accuracy.
Ancestor Sampling for Particle Gibbs,We present a novel method in the family of particle MCMC methods that we refer to as particle Gibbs with ancestor sampling (PG-AS). Similarly to the existing PG with backward simulation (PG-BS) procedure, we use backward sampling to (considerably) improve the mixing of the PG kernel. Instead of using separate forward and backward sweeps as in PG-BS, however, we achieve the same effect in a single forward sweep. We apply the PG-AS framework to the challenging class of non-Markovian state-space models. We develop a truncation strategy of these models that is applicable in principle to any backward-simulation-based method, but which is particularly well suited to the PG-AS framework. In particular, as we show in a simulation study, PG-AS can yield an order-of-magnitude improved accuracy relative to PG-BS due to its robustness to the truncation error. Several application examples are discussed, including Rao-Blackwellized particle smoothing and inference in degenerate state-space models.
Regularized Off-Policy TD-Learning,We present a novel $l_1$ regularized off-policy convergent TD-learning method (termed RO-TD), which is able to learn sparse representations of value functions with low computational complexity. The algorithmic framework underlying RO-TD integrates two key ideas: off-policy convergent gradient TD methods, such as TDC, and a convex-concave saddle-point formulation of non-smooth convex optimization, which enables first-order solvers and feature selection using online convex regularization. A detailed theoretical and experimental analysis of RO-TD is presented. A variety of experiments are presented to illustrate the off-policy convergence, sparse feature selection capability and low computational cost of the RO-TD algorithm.
Multiclass Learning Approaches: A Theoretical Comparison with Implications,We theoretically analyze and compare the following five popular multiclass classification methods: One vs. All, All Pairs, Tree-based classifiers, Error Correcting Output Codes (ECOC) with randomly generated code matrices, and Multiclass SVM. In the first four methods, the classification is based on a reduction to binary classification. We consider the case where the binary classifier comes from a class of VC dimension $d$, and in particular from the class of halfspaces over $\reals^d$. We analyze both the estimation error and the approximation error of these methods. Our analysis reveals interesting conclusions of practical relevance, regarding the success of the different approaches under various conditions. Our proof technique employs tools from VC theory to analyze the \emph{approximation error} of hypothesis classes. This is in sharp contrast to most, if not all, previous uses of VC theory, which only deal with estimation error.
Truly Nonparametric Online Variational Inference for Hierarchical Dirichlet Processes,Variational methods provide a computationally scalable alternative to Monte Carlo methods for large-scale, Bayesian nonparametric learning.  In practice, however, conventional batch and online variational methods quickly become trapped in local optima. In this paper, we consider a nonparametric topic model based on the hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP), and develop a novel online variational inference algorithm based on split-merge topic updates. We derive a simpler and faster variational approximation of the HDP, and show that by intelligently splitting and merging components of the variational posterior, we can achieve substantially better predictions of test data than conventional online and batch variational algorithms. For streaming analysis of large datasets where batch analysis is infeasible, we show that our split-merge updates better capture the nonparametric properties of the underlying model, allowing continual learning of new topics.
Hierarchical spike coding of sound,We develop a probabilistic generative model for representing acoustic event structure at multiple scales via a two-stage hierarchy. The first stage consists of a spiking representation which encodes a sound with a sparse set of kernels at different frequencies positioned precisely in time. The coarse time and frequency statistical structure of the first-stage spikes is encoded by a second stage spiking representation, while fine-scale statistical regularities are encoded by recurrent interactions within the first-stage.  When fitted to speech data, the model encodes acoustic features such as harmonic stacks, sweeps, and frequency modulations, that can be composed to represent complex acoustic events. The model is also able to synthesize sounds from the higher-level representation and provides significant improvement over wavelet thresholding techniques on a denoising task.
Learning Networks of Heterogeneous Influence,Information, disease, and influence diffuse over networks of entities in both natural systems and human society. Analyzing these transmission networks plays an important role in understanding the diffusion processes and predicting events in the future. However, the underlying transmission networks are often hidden and incomplete, and we observe only the time stamps when cascades of events happen. In this paper, we attempt to address the challenging problem of uncovering the hidden network only from the cascades.  The structure discovery problem is complicated by the fact that the influence among different entities in a network are heterogeneous, which can not be described by a simple parametric model. Therefore, we propose a kernel-based method which can capture a diverse range of different types of influence without any prior assumption. In both synthetic and real cascade data, we show that our model can better recover the underlying diffusion network and drastically improve the estimation of the influence functions between networked entities.
Human memory search as a random walk in a semantic network,The human mind has a remarkable ability to store a vast amount of information in memory, and an even more remarkable ability to retrieve these experiences when needed. Understanding the representations and algorithms that underlie human memory search could potentially be useful in other information retrieval settings, including internet search. Psychological studies have revealed clear regularities in how people search their memory, with clusters of semantically related items tending to be retrieved together. These findings have recently been taken as evidence that human memory search is similar to animals foraging for food in patchy environments, with people making a rational decision to switch away from a cluster of related information as it becomes depleted. We demonstrate that the results that were taken as evidence for this account also emerge from a random walk on a semantic network, much like the random web surfer model used in internet search engines. This offers a simpler and more unified account of how people search their memory, postulating a single process rather than one process for exploring a cluster and one process for switching between clusters.
Near Optimal Chernoff Bounds for Markov Decision Processes,The expected return is a widely used objective in decision making under uncertainty.  Many algorithms, such as value iteration, have been proposed to optimize it. In risk-aware settings, however, the expected return is often not an appropriate objective to optimize.  We propose a new optimization objective for risk-aware planning and show that it has desirable theoretical properties. We also draw connections to previously proposed objectives for risk-aware planing: minmax, exponential utility, percentile and mean minus variance. Our method applies to an extended class of Markov decision processes: we allow costs to be stochastic as long as they are bounded.  Additionally, we present an efficient algorithm for optimizing the proposed objective. Synthetic and real-world experiments illustrate the effectiveness of our method, at scale.
Learning Invariant Representations of Molecules for Atomization Energy Prediction,The accurate prediction of molecular energetics in chemical compound space is a crucial ingredient for rational compound design.  The inherently graph-like, non-vectorial nature of molecular data gives rise to a unique and difficult machine learning problem. In this paper, we adopt a learning-from-scratch approach where quantum-mechanical molecular energies are predicted directly from the raw molecular geometry. The study suggests a benefit from setting flexible priors and enforcing invariance stochastically rather than structurally. Our results improve the state-of-the-art by a factor of almost three, bringing statistical methods one step closer to the holy grail of ''chemical accuracy''.
Clustering Sparse Graphs,We develop a new algorithm to cluster sparse unweighted graphs -- i.e. partition the nodes into disjoint clusters so that there is higher density within clusters, and low across clusters. By sparsity we mean the setting where both the in-cluster and across cluster edge densities are very small, possibly vanishing in the size of the graph. Sparsity makes the problem noisier, and hence more difficult to solve.   Any clustering involves a tradeoff between minimizing two kinds of errors: missing edges within clusters and present edges across clusters. Our insight is that in the sparse case, these must be {\em penalized differently}. We analyze our algorithm's performance on the natural, classical and widely studied ``planted partition'' model (also called the stochastic block model); we show that our algorithm can cluster sparser graphs, and with smaller clusters, than all previous methods. This is seen empirically as well.
Minimax Multi-Task Learning and a Generalized Loss-Compositional Paradigm for MTL,Since its inception, the modus operandi of multi-task learning (MTL) has been to minimize the task-wise mean of the empirical risks.   We introduce a generalized loss-compositional paradigm for MTL that includes a spectrum of formulations as a subfamily. One endpoint of this spectrum is minimax MTL: a new MTL formulation that minimizes the maximum of the tasks' empirical risks. Via a certain relaxation of minimax MTL, we obtain a continuum of MTL formulations spanning minimax MTL and classical MTL. The full paradigm itself is loss-compositional, operating on the vector of empirical risks. It incorporates minimax MTL, its relaxations, and many new MTL formulations as special cases. We show theoretically that minimax MTL tends to avoid worst case outcomes on newly drawn test tasks in the learning to learn (LTL) test setting. The results of several MTL formulations on synthetic and real problems in the MTL and LTL test settings are encouraging.
Graphical Models via Generalized Linear Models,Undirected graphical models, or Markov networks, such as Gaussian graphical models and Ising models enjoy popularity in a variety of applications.  In many settings, however, data may not follow a Gaussian or binomial distribution assumed by these models. We introduce a new class of graphical models based on generalized linear models (GLM) by assuming that node-wise conditional distributions arise from exponential families.  Our models allow one to estimate networks for a wide class of exponential distributions, such as the Poisson, negative binomial, and exponential, by fitting penalized GLMs to select the neighborhood for each node. A major contribution of this paper is the rigorous statistical analysis showing that with high probability, the neighborhood of our graphical models can be recovered exactly. We provide examples of high-throughput genomic networks learned via our GLM graphical models for multinomial and Poisson distributed data.
Super-Bit Locality-Sensitive Hashing,Sign-random-projection locality-sensitive hashing (SRP-LSH) is a probabilistic dimension reduction method which provides an unbiased estimate of angular similarity, yet suffers from the large variance of its estimation. In this work, we propose the Super-Bit locality-sensitive hashing (SBLSH). It is easy to implement, which orthogonalizes the random projection vectors in batches, and it is theoretically guaranteed that SBLSH also provides an unbiased estimate of angular similarity, yet with a smaller variance when the angle to estimate is within $(0,\pi/2]$. The extensive experiments on real data well validate that given the same length of binary code, SBLSH may achieve significant mean squared error reduction in estimating pairwise angular similarity. Moreover, SBLSH shows the superiority over SRP-LSH in approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) retrieval experiments.
A Neural Autoregressive Topic Model,We describe a new model for learning meaningful representations of text documents from an unlabeled collection of documents. This model is inspired by the recently proposed Replicated Softmax, an undirected graphical model of word counts that was shown to learn a better generative model and more meaningful document representations. Specifically, we take inspiration from the conditional mean-field recursive equations of the Replicated Softmax in order to define a neural network architecture that estimates the probability of observing a new word in a given document given the previously observed words. This paradigm also allows us to replace the expensive softmax distribution over words with a hierarchical distribution over paths in a binary tree of words. The end result is a model whose training complexity scales logarithmically with the vocabulary size instead of linearly as in the Replicated Softmax. Our experiments show that our model is competitive both as a generative model of documents and as a document representation learning algorithm.
A mechanistic model of early sensory processing based on subtracting sparse representations,Early stages of sensory systems face the challenge of compressing information from numerous receptors onto a much smaller number of projection neurons, a so called communication bottleneck. To make more efficient use of limited bandwidth, compression may be achieved using predictive coding, whereby predictable, or redundant, components of the stimulus are removed. In the case of the retina, Srinivasan et al. (1982) suggested that feedforward inhibitory connections subtracting a linear prediction generated from nearby receptors implement such compression, resulting in biphasic center-surround receptive fields. However, feedback inhibitory circuits are common in early sensory circuits and furthermore their dynamics may be nonlinear. Can such circuits implement predictive coding as well? Here, solving the transient dynamics of nonlinear reciprocal feedback circuits through analogy to a signal-processing algorithm called linearized Bregman iteration we show that nonlinear predictive coding can be implemented in an inhibitory feedback circuit. In response to a step stimulus, interneuron activity in time constructs progressively less sparse but more accurate representations of the stimulus, a temporally evolving prediction. This analysis provides a powerful theoretical framework to interpret and understand the dynamics of early sensory processing in a variety of physiological experiments and yields novel predictions regarding the relation between activity and stimulus statistics.
Truncation-free Online Variational Inference for Bayesian Nonparametric Models,We present a truncation-free online variational inference algorithm for Bayesian nonparametric models. Unlike traditional (online) variational inference algorithms that require truncations for the model or the variational distribution, our method adapts model complexity on the fly. Our experiments for Dirichlet process mixture models and hierarchical Dirichlet process topic models on two large-scale data sets show better performance than previous online variational inference algorithms.
MCMC for continuous-time discrete-state systems,We propose a simple and novel framework for MCMC inference in continuous-time discrete-state systems with pure jump trajectories. We construct an exact MCMC sampler for such systems by alternately sampling a random discretization of time given a trajectory of the system, and then a new trajectory given the discretization.  The first step can be performed efficiently using properties of the Poisson process, while the second step can avail of discrete-time MCMC techniques based on the forward-backward algorithm. We compare our approach to particle MCMC and a uniformization-based sampler, and show its advantages.
Locating Changes in Highly Dependent Data with Unknown Number of Change Points,The problem of multiple change point estimation is  considered for sequences  with unknown number of change points.  A consistency framework is suggested that is suitable for highly dependent time-series, and an asymptotically consistent algorithm is proposed.   In order for the consistency to be established the only assumption  required is that the data is generated by stationary ergodic time-series distributions. No modeling, independence or parametric assumptions are made; the data are allowed to be dependent and the dependence can be of arbitrary form.  The theoretical results are complemented with experimental evaluations.
Distributed Non-Stochastic Experts,We consider the online distributed non-stochastic experts problem, where the distributed system consists of one coordinator node that is connected to k sites, and the sites are required to communicate with each other via the coordinator. At each time-step t, one of the k site nodes has to pick an expert from the set {1, . . . , n}, and the same site receives information about payoffs of all experts for that round. The goal of the distributed system is to minimize regret at time horizon T, while simultaneously keeping communication to a minimum. The two extreme solutions to this problem are: (i) Full communication: This essentially simulates the non-distributed setting to obtain the optimal O(\sqrt{log(n)T}) regret bound at the cost of T communication. (ii) No communication: Each site runs an independent copy  the regret is O(\sqrt{log(n)kT}) and the communication is 0. This paper shows the difficulty of simultaneously achieving regret asymptotically better than \sqrt{kT} and communication better than T. We give a novel algorithm that for an oblivious adversary achieves a non-trivial trade-off: regret O(\sqrt{k^{5(1+\epsilon)/6} T}) and communication O(T/k^\epsilon), for any value of \epsilon in (0, 1/5). We also consider a variant of the model, where the coordinator picks the expert. In this model, we show that the label-efficient forecaster of Cesa-Bianchi et al. (2005) already gives us strategy that is near optimal in regret vs communication trade-off.
Nonparametric Bayesian Inverse Reinforcement Learning for Multiple Reward Functions,We present a nonparametric Bayesian approach to inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) for multiple reward functions. Most previous IRL algorithms assume that the behaviour data is obtained from an agent who is optimizing a single reward function, but this assumption is hard to be met in practice. Our approach is based on integrating the Dirichlet process mixture model into Bayesian IRL. We provide an efficient Metropolis-Hastings sampling algorithm utilizing the gradient of the posterior to estimate the underlying reward functions, and demonstrate that our approach outperforms the previous ones via experiments on a number of problem domains.
Multiclass Learning  with Simplex Coding,In this paper we dicuss a novel  framework for multiclass learning,  defined by  a suitable coding/decoding strategy,  namely the simplex coding, that allows to generalize to multiple classes a relaxation approach commonly used in binary classification. In this framework a  relaxation error analysis can be developed avoiding constraints on the considered hypotheses class.  Moreover, we show that in this setting it is possible to derive the first provably consistent  regularized methods with training/tuning complexity which is {\em independent} to the number of classes. Tools from convex analysis are introduced that can be used beyond the scope of this paper.
Relax and Randomize : From Value to Algorithms,We show a principled way of deriving online learning algorithms from a minimax analysis. Various upper bounds on the minimax value, previously thought to be non-constructive, are shown to yield algorithms. This allows us to seamlessly recover known methods and to derive new ones, also capturing such ''unorthodox'' methods as Follow the Perturbed Leader and the R^2 forecaster. Understanding the inherent complexity of the learning problem thus leads to the development of algorithms. To illustrate our approach, we present several new algorithms, including a family of randomized methods that use the idea of a ''random play out''. New versions of the Follow-the-Perturbed-Leader algorithms are presented, as well as methods based on the Littlestone's dimension, efficient methods for matrix completion with trace norm, and algorithms for the problems of transductive learning and prediction with static experts.
Weighted Likelihood Policy Search with Model Selection,Reinforcement learning (RL) methods based on direct policy search (DPS) have been actively discussed to achieve an efficient approach to complicated Markov decision processes (MDPs). Although they have brought much progress in practical applications of RL, there still remains an unsolved problem in DPS related to model  selection for the policy. In this paper, we propose a novel DPS method, {\it  weighted likelihood policy search (WLPS)}, where a policy is efficiently learned through the weighted likelihood estimation. WLPS naturally connects DPS to the statistical inference problem and thus various sophisticated techniques in statistics can be applied to DPS problems directly. Hence, by following the idea of the {\it information criterion}, we develop a new measurement for model comparison in DPS based on the weighted log-likelihood.
Statistical Consistency of Ranking Methods in A Rank-Differentiable Probability Space,This paper is concerned with the statistical consistency of ranking methods. Recently, it was proven that many commonly used pairwise ranking methods are inconsistent with the weighted pairwise disagreement loss (WPDL), which can be viewed as the true loss of ranking, even in a low-noise setting. This result is interesting but also surprising, given that the pairwise ranking methods have been shown very effective in practice. In this paper, we argue that the aforementioned result might not be conclusive, depending on what kind of assumptions are used. We give a new assumption that the labels of objects to rank lie in a rank-differentiable probability space (RDPS), and prove that the pairwise ranking methods become consistent with WPDL under this assumption. What is especially inspiring is that RDPS is actually not stronger than but similar to the low-noise setting. Our studies provide theoretical justifications of some empirical findings on pairwise ranking methods that are unexplained before, which bridge the gap between theory and applications.
Proper losses for learning from partial labels,This paper discusses the problem of calibrating posterior class probabilities from partially labelled data. Each instance is assumed to be labelled as belonging to one of several candidate categories, at most one of them being true. We generalize the concept of proper loss to this scenario, establish a necessary and sufficient condition for a loss function to be proper, and we show a direct procedure to construct a proper loss for partial labels from a conventional proper loss. The problem can be characterized by the mixing probability matrix relating the true class of the data and the observed labels. An interesting result is that the full knowledge of this matrix is not required, and losses can be constructed that are proper in a subset of the probability simplex.
Mandatory Leaf Node Prediction in Hierarchical Multilabel Classification,In hierarchical classification, the prediction paths may be required to always end at leaf nodes. This is called mandatory leaf node prediction (MLNP) and is particularly useful when the leaf nodes have much stronger semantic meaning than the internal nodes. However, while there have been a lot of MLNP methods in hierarchical multiclass classification, performing MLNP in hierarchical multilabel classification is much more difficult. In this paper, we propose a novel MLNP algorithm that (i) considers the global hierarchy structure; and (ii) can  be used on hierarchies of both trees and DAGs. We show that one can efficiently maximize the joint posterior probability of all the node labels by a simple greedy algorithm. Moreover, this can be further extended to the minimization of the expected symmetric loss. Experiments are performed on a number of real-world data sets with tree- and DAG-structured label hierarchies. The  proposed method consistently outperforms other hierarchical and flat multilabel classification methods.
Mirror Descent Meets Fixed Share (and feels no regret),Mirror descent with an entropic regularizer is known to achieve shifting regret bounds that are logarithmic in the dimension. This is done using either a carefully designed projection or by a weight sharing technique. Via a novel unified analysis, we show that these two approaches deliver essentially equivalent bounds on a notion of regret generalizing shifting, adaptive, discounted, and other related regrets. Our analysis also captures and extends the generalized weight sharing technique of Bousquet and Warmuth, and can be refined in several ways, including improvements for small losses and adaptive tuning of parameters.
Mixability in Statistical Learning,Statistical learning and sequential prediction are two different but related formalisms to study the quality of predictions. Mapping out their relations and transferring ideas is an active area of investigation. We provide another piece of the puzzle by showing that an important concept in sequential prediction, the mixability of a loss, has a natural counterpart in the statistical setting, which we call stochastic mixability. Just as ordinary mixability characterizes fast rates for the worst-case regret in sequential prediction, stochastic mixability characterizes fast rates in statistical learning. We show that, in the special case of log-loss, stochastic mixability reduces to a well-known (but usually unnamed) martingale condition, which is used in existing convergence theorems for minimum description length and Bayesian inference. In the case of 0/1-loss, it reduces to the margin condition of Mammen and Tsybakov, and in the case that the model under consideration contains all possible predictors, it is equivalent to ordinary mixability.
A Marginalized Particle Gaussian Process Regression,We present a novel marginalized particle Gaussian process (MPGP) regression, which provides a fast, accurate online Bayesian filtering framework to model the latent function. Using a state space model established by the data construction procedure, our MPGP recursively filters out the estimation of hidden function values by a Gaussian mixture. Meanwhile, it provides a new online method for training hyperparameters with a number of weighted particles. We demonstrate the estimated performance of our MPGP on both simulated and real large data sets. The results show that our MPGP is a robust estimation algorithm with high computational efficiency, which outperforms other state-of-art sparse GP methods.
Context-Sensitive Decision Forests for Object Detection,In this paper we introduce Context-Sensitive Decision Forests - A new perspective to exploit contextual information in the popular decision forest framework for the object detection problem. They are tree-structured classifiers with the ability to access intermediate prediction (here: classification and regression) information during training and inference time. This intermediate prediction is available to each sample, which allows us to develop context-based decision criteria, used for refining the prediction process. In addition, we introduce a novel split criterion which in combination with a priority based way of constructing the trees, allows more accurate regression mode selection and hence improves the current context information. In our experiments, we demonstrate improved results for the task of pedestrian detection on the challenging TUD data set when compared to state-of-the-art methods.
Local Supervised Learning through Space Partitioning,We develop a novel approach for supervised learning based on adaptively partitioning the feature space into different regions and learning local region-specific classifiers. We formulate an empirical risk minimization problem that incorporates both partitioning and classification in to a single global objective. We show that space partitioning can be equivalently reformulated as a supervised learning problem and consequently any discriminative learning method can be utilized in conjunction with our approach. Nevertheless, we consider locally linear schemes by learning linear partitions and linear region classifiers. Locally linear schemes can not only approximate complex decision boundaries and ensure low training error but also provide tight control on over-fitting and generalization error. We train locally linear classifiers by using LDA, logistic regression and perceptrons, and so our scheme is scalable to large data sizes and high-dimensions. We present experimental results demonstrating improved performance over state of the art classification techniques on benchmark datasets. We also show improved robustness to label noise.
Learning Manifolds with K-Means and K-Flats,We study the problem of estimating a manifold from random samples. In particular, we consider piecewise constant and piecewise linear estimators induced by  k-means and k-ats, and analyze their performance. We extend previous results  for k-means in two separate directions. First, we provide new results for k-means reconstruction on manifolds and, secondly, we prove reconstruction bounds for higher-order approximation (k-ats), for which no known results were previously available. While the results for k-means are novel, some of the technical tools are well-established in the literature. In the case of k-ats, both the results and the mathematical tools are  new.
Semi-Crowdsourced Clustering: Generalizing Crowd Labeling by Robust Distance Metric Learning,One of the main challenges in data clustering is to define an appropriate similarity measure between two objects. Crowdclustering addresses this challenge by defining the pairwise similarity based on the manual annotations obtained through crowdsourcing. Despite its encouraging results, a key limitation of crowdclustering is that it can only cluster objects when their manual annotations are available. To address this limitation, we propose a new approach for clustering, called \textit{semi-crowdsourced clustering} that effectively combines the low-level features of objects with the manual annotations of a subset of the objects obtained via crowdsourcing. The key idea is to learn an appropriate similarity measure, based on the low-level features of objects, from the manual annotations of only a small portion of the data to be clustered. One difficulty in learning the pairwise similarity measure is that there is a significant amount of noise and inter-worker variations in the manual annotations obtained via crowdsourcing. We address this difficulty by developing a metric learning algorithm based on the matrix completion method. Our empirical study with two real-world image data sets shows that the proposed algorithm outperforms state-of-the-art distance metric learning algorithms in both clustering accuracy and computational efficiency.
Query Complexity of Derivative-Free Optimization,Derivative Free Optimization (DFO) is attractive when the objective function's derivatives are not available and evaluations are costly.   Moreover, if the function evaluations are noisy, then approximating gradients by finite differences is difficult.  This paper gives quantitative lower bounds on the performance of DFO with noisy function evaluations, exposing a fundamental and unavoidable gap between optimization performance based on noisy evaluations versus noisy gradients. This challenges the conventional wisdom that the method of finite differences is comparable to a stochastic gradient.  However, there are situations in which DFO is unavoidable, and for such situations we propose a new DFO algorithm that is proved to be near optimal for the class of strongly convex objective functions.  A distinctive feature of the algorithm is that it only uses Boolean-valued function comparisons, rather than evaluations.  This makes the algorithm useful in an even wider range of applications, including optimization based on paired comparisons from human subjects, for example.  Remarkably, we show that regardless of whether DFO is based on noisy function evaluations or Boolean-valued function comparisons, the convergence rate is the same.
Learning optimal spike-based representations,How do neural networks learn to represent information? Here, we address this question by assuming that neural networks seek to generate an optimal population representation for a fixed linear decoder. We define a loss function for the quality of the population read-out and derive the dynamical equations for both neurons and synapses from the requirement to minimize this loss. The dynamical equations yield a network of integrate-and-fire neurons undergoing Hebbian plasticity. We show that, through learning, initially regular and highly correlated spike trains evolve towards Poisson-distributed and independent spike trains with much lower firing rates. The learning rule drives the network into an asynchronous, balanced regime where all inputs to the network are represented optimally for the given decoder. We show that the network dynamics and synaptic plasticity jointly balance the excitation and inhibition received by each unit as tightly as possible and, in doing so, minimize the prediction error between the inputs and the decoded outputs. In turn, spikes are only signalled whenever this prediction error exceeds a certain value, thereby implementing a predictive coding scheme. Our work  suggests that several of the features reported in cortical networks, such as the high trial-to-trial variability, the balance between excitation and inhibition, and spike-timing dependent plasticity, are simply signatures of an efficient, spike-based code.
Imitation Learning by Coaching,Imitation Learning has been shown to be successful in solving many challenging real-world problems. Some recent approaches give strong performance guarantees by training the policy iteratively. However, it is important to note that these guarantees depend on   how well the policy we found can imitate the oracle on the training data.  When there is a substantial difference between the oracle's ability  and the learner's policy space, we may fail to find a policy that has low error on the training set. In such cases, we propose to use a coach that demonstrates easy-to-learn actions for the learner  and gradually approaches the oracle. By a reduction of learning by demonstration to online learning,  we prove that coaching can yield a lower regret bound than using the oracle. We apply our algorithm to a novel cost-sensitive dynamic feature selection problem, a hard decision problem that considers a user-specified accuracy-cost trade-off.  Experimental results on UCI datasets show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art imitation learning methods in dynamic features selection and two static feature selection methods.
Bayesian n-Choose-k Models for Classification and Ranking,In categorical data there is often structure in the number of variables that take on each label.  For example,  the total number of objects in an image and the number of highly relevant documents per query in web search both tend to follow a structured distribution. In this paper, we study a probabilistic model that explicitly includes a prior distribution over such counts, along with a count-conditional likelihood that defines probabilities over all subsets of a given size. When labels are binary and the prior over counts is a Poisson-Binomial distribution, a standard logistic regression model is recovered, but for other count distributions, such priors induce global dependencies and combinatorics that appear to complicate learning and inference.  However, we demonstrate that simple, efficient learning procedures can be derived for more general forms of this model. We show the utility of the formulation by exploring multi-object classification as maximum likelihood learning, and ranking and top-K classification as loss-sensitive learning.
Collaborative Ranking With 17 Parameters,The primary application of collaborate filtering (CF) is to recommend a small set of items to a user, which entails ranking. Most approaches, however, formulate the CF problem as rating prediction, overlooking the ranking perspective. In this work we present a method for collaborative ranking that leverages the strengths of the two main CF approaches, neighborhood- and model-based. Our novel method is highly efficient, with only seventeen parameters to optimize and a single hyperparameter to tune, and beats the state-of-the-art collaborative ranking methods. We also show that parameters learned on one dataset yield excellent results on a very different dataset, without any retraining.
Non-linear Metric Learning,In this paper, we introduce two novel metric learning algorithms, 2-LMNN and GB-LMNN, which are explicitly designed to be non-linear and  easy-to-use. The two approaches achieve this goal in fundamentally different ways: 2-LMNN inherits the computational benefits of a linear mapping from linear metric learning, but uses a non-linear 2-distance to explicitly capture similarities within histogram data sets; GB-LMNN applies gradient-boosting to learn non-linear mappings directly in function space and takes advantage of this approach's robustness, speed, parallelizability and insensitivity towards the single additional hyper-parameter. On various benchmark data sets, we demonstrate these methods not only match the current state-of-the-art in terms of kNN classification error, but in the case of 2-LMNN, obtain best results in 19 out of 20 learning settings.
Multiple Choice Learning: Learning to Produce Multiple Structured Outputs,The paper addresses the problem of generating multiple hypotheses for prediction tasks that involve interaction with users or successive components in a cascade. Given a set of multiple hypotheses, such components/users have the ability to automatically rank the results and thus retrieve the best one. The standard approach for handling this scenario is to learn a single model and then produce M-best Maximum a Posteriori (MAP) hypotheses from this model. In contrast, we formulate this multiple {\em choice} learning task as a multiple-output structured-output prediction problem with a loss function that captures the natural setup of the problem. We present a max-margin formulation  that minimizes an upper-bound on this loss-function. Experimental results on the problems of image co-segmentation and protein side-chain prediction show that our method outperforms conventional approaches used for this  scenario and leads to substantial improvements in prediction accuracy.
Image Denoising and Inpainting with Deep Neural Networks,We present a novel approach to low-level vision problems that combines sparse coding and deep networks pre-trained with denoising auto-encoder (DA). We propose an alternative training scheme that successfully adapts DA, originally designed for unsupervised feature learning, to the tasks of image denoising and blind inpainting. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in the image denoising task. More importantly, in blind image inpainting task, the proposed method provides solutions to some complex problems that have not been tackled before. Specifically, we can automatically remove complex patterns like superimposed text from an image, rather than simple patterns like pixels missing at random. Moreover, the proposed method does not need the information regarding the region that requires inpainting to be given a priori. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in the tasks of image denoising and blind inpainting. We also show that our new training scheme for DA is more effective and can improve the performance of unsupervised feature learning.
Sparse Prediction with the $k$-Support Norm,We derive a novel norm that corresponds to the tightest convex   relaxation of sparsity combined with an $\ell_2$ penalty. We show   that this new norm provides a tighter relaxation than the elastic   net, and is thus a good replacement for the Lasso or the elastic net   in sparse prediction problems.  But through studying our new norm,   we also bound the looseness of the elastic net, thus shedding new   light on it and providing justification for its use.
Bayesian nonparametric models for bipartite graphs,We develop a novel Bayesian nonparametric model for random bipartite graphs. The model is based on the theory of completely random measures and is able to handle a potentially infinite number of nodes. We show that the model has appealing properties and in particular it may exhibit a power-law behavior. We derive a posterior characterization, an Indian Buffet-like generative process for network growth, and a simple and efficient Gibbs sampler for posterior simulation. Our model is shown to be well fitted to several real-world social networks.
Bayesian models for Large-scale Hierarchical Classification,A challenging problem in hierarchical classification is to leverage the hierarchical relations among classes for  improving classification performance. An even greater challenge is to do so in a manner that is computationally feasible for the large scale problems usually encountered in practice. This paper proposes a set of Bayesian methods to model hierarchical dependencies among class labels using multivari- ate logistic regression. Specifically, the parent-child relationships are modeled by placing a hierarchical prior over the children nodes centered around the parame- ters of their parents; thereby encouraging classes nearby in the hierarchy to share similar model parameters. We present new, efficient variational algorithms for tractable posterior inference in these models, and provide a parallel implementa- tion that can comfortably handle large-scale problems with hundreds of thousands of dimensions and tens of thousands of classes. We run a comparative evaluation on multiple large-scale benchmark datasets that highlights the scalability of our approach, and shows a significant performance advantage over the other state-of- the-art hierarchical methods.
Probabilistic Low-Rank Subspace Clustering,In this paper, we consider the problem of clustering data points into low-dimensional subspaces in the presence of outliers. We pose the problem using a density estimation formulation with an associated generative model. Based on this probability model, we first develop an iterative expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm and then derive its global solution. In addition, we develop two Bayesian methods based on variational Bayesian (VB) approximation, which are capable of automatic dimensionality selection. While the first method is based on an alternating optimization scheme for all unknowns, the second method makes use of recent results in VB matrix factorization leading to fast and effective estimation. Both methods are extended to handle sparse outliers for robustness and can handle missing values. Experimental results suggest that proposed methods are very effective in clustering and identifying outliers.
Communication/Computation Tradeoffs in Consensus-Based Distributed Optimization,We study the scalability of consensus-based distributed optimization algorithms by considering two questions: How many processors should we use for a given problem, and how often should they communicate when communication is not free? Central to our analysis is a problem-specific value $r$ which quantifies the communication/computation tradeoff. We show that organizing the communication among nodes as a $k$-regular expander graph~\cite{kRegExpanders} yields speedups, while when all pairs of nodes communicate (as in a complete graph), there is an optimal number of processors that depends on $r$. Surprisingly, a speedup can be obtained, in terms of the time to reach a fixed level of accuracy, by communicating less and less frequently as the computation progresses. Experiments on a real cluster solving metric learning and non-smooth convex minimization tasks demonstrate strong agreement between theory and practice.
Pointwise Tracking the Optimal Regression Function,This paper examines the possibility of a `reject option' in the context of least squares regression. It is shown that using rejection it is theoretically possible to learn `selective' regressors that can $\epsilon$-pointwise track the best regressor in hindsight from the same hypothesis class, while rejecting only a bounded portion of the domain. Moreover, the rejected volume vanishes with the training set size, under certain conditions. We then develop efficient and exact implementation of these selective regressors for the case of linear regression. Empirical evaluation over a suite of real-world datasets corroborates the theoretical analysis and indicates that our selective regressors can provide substantial advantage by reducing estimation error.
Multi-Stage Multi-Task Feature Learning,Multi-task sparse feature learning aims to improve the generalization performance by exploiting the shared features among tasks. It has been successfully applied to many applications including computer vision and biomedical informatics. Most of the existing multi-task sparse feature learning algorithms are formulated as a convex sparse regularization problem, which is usually suboptimal, due to its looseness for approximating an $\ell_0$-type regularizer. In this paper, we propose a non-convex formulation for multi-task sparse feature learning based on a novel regularizer. To solve the non-convex optimization problem, we propose a Multi-Stage Multi-Task Feature Learning (MSMTFL) algorithm. Moreover, we present a detailed theoretical analysis showing that MSMTFL achieves a better parameter estimation error bound than the convex formulation. Empirical studies on both synthetic and real-world data sets demonstrate the effectiveness of MSMTFL in comparison with the state of the art multi-task sparse feature learning algorithms.
Cost-Sensitive Exploration in Bayesian Reinforcement Learning,In this paper, we consider Bayesian reinforcement learning (BRL) where actions incur costs in addition to rewards, and thus exploration has to be constrained in terms of the expected total cost while learning to maximize the expected long-term total reward. In order to formalize cost-sensitive exploration, we use the constrained Markov decision process (CMDP) as the model of the environment, in which we can naturally encode exploration requirements using the cost function. We extend BEETLE, a model-based BRL method, for learning in the environment with cost constraints. We demonstrate the cost-sensitive exploration behaviour in a number of simulated problems.
The topographic unsupervised learning of natural sounds in the auditory cortex,The computational modelling of the primary auditory cortex (A1) has been less fruitful than that of the primary visual cortex (V1) due to the less organized properties of A1. Greater disorder has recently been demonstrated for the tonotopy of A1 that has traditionally been considered to be as ordered as the retinotopy of V1. This disorder appears to be incongruous, given the uniformity of the neocortex; however, we hypothesized that both A1 and V1 would adopt an efficient coding strategy and that the disorder in A1 reflects natural sound statistics. To provide a computational model of the tonotopic disorder in A1, we used a model that was originally proposed for the smooth V1 map. In contrast to natural images, natural sounds exhibit distant correlations, which were learned and reflected in the disordered map. The auditory model predicted harmonic relationships among neighbouring A1 cells; furthermore, the same mechanism used to model V1 complex cells reproduced nonlinear responses similar to the pitch selectivity. These results contribute to the understanding of the sensory cortices of different modalities in a novel and integrated manner.
Exploration in Model-based Reinforcement Learning by Empirically Estimating Learning Progress,Formal exploration approaches in model-based reinforcement learning estimate the accuracy of the currently learned model without consideration of the empirical prediction error. For example, PAC-MDP approaches such as Rmax base their model certainty on the amount of collected data, while Bayesian approaches assume a prior over the transition dynamics. We propose extensions to such approaches which drive exploration solely based on empirical estimates of the learner's accuracy and learning progress. We provide a ``sanity check'' theoretical analysis, discussing the behavior of our extensions in the standard stationary finite state-action case. We then provide experimental studies demonstrating the robustness of these exploration measures in cases of non-stationary environments or where original approaches are misled by wrong domain assumptions.
Accuracy at the Top,We introduce a new notion of classification accuracy based on the top $\tau$-quantile values of a scoring function, a relevant criterion in a number of problems arising for search engines. We define an algorithm optimizing a convex surrogate of the corresponding loss, and show how its solution can be obtained by solving several convex optimization problems. We also present margin-based guarantees for this algorithm based on the $\tau$-quantile of the functions in the hypothesis set. Finally, we report the results of several experiments evaluating the performance of our algorithm. In a comparison in a bipartite setting with several algorithms seeking high precision at the top, our algorithm achieves a better performance in precision at the top.
Collaborative Gaussian Processes for Preference Learning,We present a new model based on Gaussian processes (GPs) for learning pairwise preferences expressed by multiple users. Inference is simplified by using a \emph{preference kernel} for GPs which allows us to combine supervised GP learning of user preferences with unsupervised dimensionality reduction for multi-user systems. The model not only exploits collaborative information from the shared structure in user behavior, but may also incorporate user features if they are available. Approximate inference is implemented using a combination of expectation propagation and variational Bayes. Finally, we present an efficient active learning strategy for querying preferences. The proposed technique performs favorably on real-world data against state-of-the-art multi-user preference learning algorithms.
On Multilabel Classification and Ranking with Partial Feedback,We present a novel multilabel/ranking algorithm working in partial information settings. The algorithm is based on 2nd-order descent methods, and relies on upper-confidence bounds to trade-off exploration and exploitation.  We analyze this algorithm in a partial adversarial setting, where covariates can be adversarial, but multilabel probabilities are ruled by (generalized) linear models. We show $O(T^{1/2}\log T)$ regret bounds, which improve in several ways on the existing results. We test the effectiveness of our upper-confidence scheme by contrasting against full-information baselines on real-world multilabel datasets, often obtaining comparable performance.
Efficient Spike-Coding with Multiplicative Adaptation in a Spike Response Model,Neural adaptation underlies the ability of neurons to maximize encoded information over a wide dynamic range of input stimuli. While adaptation is an intrinsic feature of neuronal models like the Hodgkin-Huxley model, the challenge is to integrate adaptation in models of neural computation.  Recent computational models like the Adaptive Spike Response Model implement adaptation as spike-based addition of fixed-size fast spike-triggered threshold dynamics and slow spike-triggered currents. Such adaptation has been shown to accurately model neural spiking behavior over a limited dynamic range. Taking a cue from kinetic models of adaptation, we propose a multiplicative Adaptive Spike Response Model where the spike-triggered adaptation dynamics are scaled multiplicatively by the adaptation state at the time of spiking. We show that unlike the additive adaptation model, the firing rate in the multiplicative adaptation model saturates to a maximum spike-rate. When simulating variance switching experiments, the model also quantitatively fits the experimental data over a wide dynamic range. Furthermore, dynamic threshold models of adaptation suggest a straightforward interpretation of neural activity in terms of dynamic signal encoding with shifted and weighted exponential kernels. We show that when thus encoding rectified filtered stimulus signals, the multiplicative Adaptive Spike Response Model achieves a high coding efficiency and maintains this efficiency over changes in the dynamic signal range of several orders of magnitude, without changing model parameters.
Selecting Diverse Features via Spectral Regularization,We study the problem of diverse feature selection in linear regression: selecting a small subset of diverse features that can predict a given objective. Diversity is useful for several reasons such as interpretability, robustness to noise, etc.  We propose several spectral regularizers that capture a notion of diversity of features and show that these are all submodular set functions. These regularizers, when added to the objective function for linear regression, result in approximately submodular functions, which can then be maximized approximately by efficient greedy and local search algorithms, with provable guarantees.  We compare our algorithms to traditional greedy and $\ell_1$-regularization schemes and show that we obtain a more diverse set of features that result in the regression problem being stable under perturbations.
Nonparanormal Belief Propagation (NPBP),The empirical success of the belief propagation approximate inference algorithm has inspired numerous theoretical and algorithmic advances. Yet, for continuous non-Gaussian domains performing belief propagation remains a challenging task: recent innovations such as nonparametric or kernel belief propagation, while useful, come with a substantial computational cost and offer little theoretical guarantees, even for tree structured models.  In this work we present Nonparanormal BP  for performing efficient inference on distributions parameterized by  a Gaussian copulas network and any univariate marginals. For  tree structured networks, our approach is guaranteed to be exact for  this powerful class of non-Gaussian models. Importantly, the method  is as efficient as standard Gaussian BP, and its convergence properties do not depend on the complexity of the univariate marginals, even when a nonparametric representation is used.
Complex Inference in Neural Circuits with Probabilistic Population Codes and Topic Models,Recent experiments have demonstrated that humans and animals typically reason probabilistically about their environment. This ability requires a neural code that represents probability distributions and neural circuits that are capable of implementing the operations of probabilistic inference. The proposed probabilistic population coding (PPC) framework provides a statistically efficient neural representation of probability distributions that is both broadly consistent with physiological measurements and capable of implementing some of the basic operations of probabilistic inference in a biologically plausible way. However, these experiments and the corresponding neural models have largely focused on simple (tractable) probabilistic computations such as cue combination, coordinate transformations, and decision making. As a result it remains unclear how to generalize this framework to more complex probabilistic computations. Here we address this short coming by showing that a very general approximate inference algorithm known as Variational Bayesian Expectation Maximization can be implemented within the linear PPC framework. We apply this approach to a generic problem faced by any given layer of cortex, namely the identification of latent causes of complex mixtures of spikes. We identify a formal equivalent between this spike pattern demixing problem and topic models used for document classification, in particular Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). We then construct a neural network implementation of variational inference and learning for LDA that utilizes a linear PPC. This network relies critically on two non-linear operations: divisive normalization and super-linear facilitation, both of which are ubiquitously observed in neural circuits. We also demonstrate how online learning can be achieved using a variation of Hebbs rule and describe an extesion of this work which allows us to deal with time varying and correlated latent causes.
Deep Learning of invariant features via tracked video sequences,We use video sequences produced by tracking as training data to learn invariant features. These features are spatial instead of temporal, and well suited to extract from still images. With a temporal coherence objective, a multi-layer neural network encodes invariance that grow increasingly complex with layer hierarchy. Without fine-tuning with labels, we achieve competitive performance on five non-temporal image datasets and state-of-the-art classification accuracy 61% on STL-10 object recognition dataset.
Deep Spatio-Temporal Architectures and Learning for Protein Structure Prediction,Residue-residue contact prediction is a fundamental problem in protein structure prediction. Hower, despite considerable research efforts, contact prediction methods are still largely unreliable. Here we introduce a novel deep machine-learning architecture which consists of a multidimensional stack of learning modules. For contact prediction, the idea is implemented as a three-dimensional stack of Neural Networks NN^k_{ij}, where i and j index the spatial coordinates of the contact map and k indexes ''time''. The temporal dimension is introduced to capture the fact that protein folding is not an instantaneous process, but rather a progressive refinement. Networks at level k in the stack can be trained in supervised fashion to refine the predictions produced by the previous level, hence addressing the problem of vanishing gradients, typical of deep architectures. Increased accuracy and generalization capabilities of this approach are established by rigorous comparison with other classical machine learning approaches for contact prediction. The deep approach leads to an accuracy for difficult long-range contacts of about 30%, roughly 10% above the state-of-the-art. Many variations in the architectures and the training algorithms are possible, leaving room for further improvements. Furthermore, the approach is applicable to other problems with strong underlying spatial and temporal components.
Learning from the Wisdom of Crowds by Minimax Entropy,An important way to make large training sets is to gather noisy labels from crowds of nonexperts. We propose a minimax entropy principle to improve the quality of these labels. Our method assumes that labels are generated by a probability distribution over workers, items, and labels. By maximizing the entropy of this distribution, the method naturally infers item confusability and worker expertise. We infer the ground truth by minimizing the entropy of this distribution, which we show minimizes the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence between the probability distribution and the unknown truth. We show that a simple coordinate descent scheme can optimize minimax entropy. Empirically, our results are substantially better than previously published methods for the same problem.
Monte Carlo Methods for Maximum Margin Supervised Topic Models,An effective strategy to exploit the supervising side information for discovering predictive topic representations is to impose discriminative constraints induced by such information on the posterior distributions under a topic model. This strategy has been adopted by a number of supervised topic models, such as MedLDA, which employs max-margin posterior constraints. However, unlike the likelihood-based supervised topic models, of which posterior inference can be carried out using the Bayes' rule, the max-margin posterior constraints have made Monte Carlo methods infeasible or at least not directly applicable, thereby limited the choice of inference algorithms to be based on variational approximation with strict mean field assumptions. In this paper, we develop two efficient Monte Carlo methods under much weaker assumptions for max-margin supervised topic models based on an importance sampler and a collapsed Gibbs sampler, respectively, in a convex dual formulation. We report thorough experimental results that compare our approach favorably against existing alternatives in both accuracy and efficiency.
Iterative ranking from pair-wise comparisons,The question of aggregating pairwise comparisons to obtain a global ranking over a collection of objects has been of interest for a very long time: be it ranking of online gamers (e.g. MSRs TrueSkill system) and chess players, aggregating social opinions, or deciding which product to sell based on transactions. In most settings, in addition to obtaining ranking, finding scores for each object (e.g. players rating) is of interest to understanding the intensity of the preferences.   In this paper, we propose a novel iterative rank aggregation algorithm for discovering scores for objects from pairwise comparisons. The algorithm has a natural random walk interpretation over the graph of objects with edges present between two objects if they are compared; the scores turn out to be the stationary probability of this random walk. The algorithm is model independent. To establish the efficacy of our method, however, we consider the popular Bradley-Terry-Luce (BTL) model in which each object has an associated score which determines the probabilistic outcomes of pairwise comparisons between objects. We bound the finite sample error rates between the scores assumed by the BTL model and those estimated by our algorithm. This, in essence, leads to order-optimal dependence on the number of samples required to learn the scores well by our algorithm. Indeed, the experimental evaluation shows that our (model independent) algorithm performs as well as the Maximum Likelihood Estimator of the BTL model and outperforms a recently proposed algorithm by Ammar and Shah [1].
ImageNet Classification with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks,We trained a large, deep convolutional neural network to classify the 1.3 million high-resolution images in the LSVRC-2010 ImageNet training set into the 1000 different classes. On the test data, we achieved top-1 and top-5 error rates of 39.7\% and 18.9\% which is considerably better than the previous state-of-the-art results. The neural network, which has 60 million parameters and 500,000 neurons, consists of five convolutional layers, some of which are followed by max-pooling layers, and two globally connected layers with a final 1000-way softmax. To make training faster, we used non-saturating neurons and a very efficient GPU implementation of convolutional nets. To reduce overfitting in the globally connected layers we employed a new regularization method that proved to be very effective.
Fused sparsity and robust estimation for linear models with unknown variance,In this paper, we develop a novel approach to the problem of learning sparse representations in the context of fused sparsity and unknown noise level. We propose an algorithm, termed Scaled Fused Dantzig Selector (SFDS), that accomplishes the aforementioned learning task by means of a second-order cone program. A special  emphasize is put on the particular instance of fused sparsity corresponding to  the learning in presence of outliers. We establish finite sample risk bounds and  carry out an experimental evaluation on both synthetic and real data.
Topic-Partitioned Multinetwork Embeddings,We introduce a joint model of network content and context designed for exploratory analysis of email networks via visualization of topic-specific communication patterns. Our model is an admixture model for text and network attributes which uses multinomial distributions over words as mixture components for explaining text and latent Euclidean positions of actors as mixture components for explaining network attributes.  We validate the appropriateness of our model by achieving state-of-the-art performance on a link prediction task and by achieving semantic coherence equivalent to that of latent Dirichlet allocation. We demonstrate the capability of our model for descriptive, explanatory, and exploratory analysis by investigating the inferred topic-specific communication patterns of a new government email dataset, the New Hanover County email corpus.
Inverse Reinforcement Learning through Structured Classification,This paper adresses the inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) problem, that is inferring a reward for which a demonstrated expert behavior is optimal. We introduce a new algorithm, SCIRL, whose principle is to use the so-called feature expectation of the expert as the parameterization of the score function of a multi-class classifier. This approach produces a reward function for which the expert policy is provably near-optimal. Contrary to most of existing IRL algorithms, SCIRL does not require solving the direct RL problem. Moreover, with an appropriate heuristic, it can succeed with only trajectories sampled according to the expert behavior. This is illustrated on a car driving simulator.
Efficient Bayes-Adaptive Reinforcement Learning using Sample-Based Search,Bayesian model-based reinforcement learning is a formally elegant approach to learning optimal behaviour under model uncertainty, trading off exploration and exploitation in an ideal way. Unfortunately, finding the resulting Bayes-optimal policies is notoriously taxing, since the search space becomes enormous. In this paper we introduce a tractable, sample-based method for approximate Bayes-optimal planning which exploits Monte-Carlo tree search. Our approach outperformed prior Bayesian model-based RL algorithms by a significant margin on several well-known benchmark problems -- because it avoids expensive applications of Bayes rule within the search tree by lazily sampling models from the current beliefs. We illustrate the advantages of our approach by showing it working in an infinite state space domain which is qualitatively out of reach of almost all previous work in Bayesian exploration.
Recovery of Sparse Probability Measures via Convex Programming,We consider the problem of cardinality penalized optimization of a convex function over the probability simplex with additional convex constraints. It's well-known that the classical L1 regularizer fails to promote sparsity on the probability simplex since L1 norm on the probability simplex is trivially constant. We propose a direct relaxation of the minimum cardinality problem and show that it can be efficiently solved using convex programming. As a first application we consider recovering a sparse probability measure given moment constraints, in which our formulation becomes linear programming, hence can be solved very efficiently. A sufficient condition for exact recovery of the minimum cardinality solution is derived for arbitrary affine constraints. We then develop a penalized version for the noisy setting which can be solved using second order cone programs. The proposed method outperforms known heuristics based on L1 norm. As a second application we consider convex clustering using a sparse Gaussian mixture and compare our results with the well known soft k-means algorithm.
Entropy Estimations Using Correlated Symmetric Stable Random Projections,Methods for efficiently estimating the Shannon entropy of data streams have important applications in learning, data mining, and network anomaly detections (e.g., the DDoS attacks). For nonnegative data streams, the method of Compressed Counting (CC) based on maximally-skewed stable random projections can provide accurate estimates of the Shannon entropy using small storage. However, CC is no longer applicable when entries of data streams can be below zero, which is a common scenario when comparing two streams. In this paper, we propose an algorithm for entropy estimation in general data streams which allow negative entries. In our method, the Shannon entropy is approximated by the finite difference of two correlated frequency moments estimated from correlated samples of symmetric stable random variables. Our experiments confirm that this method is able to substantially better approximate the Shannon entropy compared to the prior state-of-the-art.
Compressive neural representation of sparse, high-dimensional probabilities,This paper shows how sparse, high-dimensional probability distributions could be represented by neurons with exponential compression. The representation is a novel application of compressive sensing to sparse probability distributions rather than to the usual sparse signals. The compressive measurements correspond to expected values of nonlinear functions of the probabilistically distributed variables. When these expected values are estimated by sampling, the quality of the compressed representation is limited only by the quality of sampling. Since the compression preserves the geometric structure of the space of sparse probability distributions, probabilistic computation can be performed in the compressed domain. Interestingly, functions satisfying the requirements of compressive sensing can be implemented as simple perceptrons. If we use perceptrons as a simple model of feedforward computation by neurons, these results show that the mean activity of a relatively small number of neurons can accurately represent a high-dimensional joint distribution implicitly, even without accounting for any noise correlations. This comprises a novel hypothesis for how neurons could encode probabilities in the brain.
Selective Labeling via Error Bound Minimization,In many practical machine learning problems, the acquisition of labeled data is often expensive and/or time consuming. This motivates us to study a problem as follows: given a label budget, how to select data points to label such that the learning performance is optimized. We propose a selective labeling method by analyzing the generalization error of Laplacian regularized Least Squares (LapRLS). In particular, we derive a deterministic generalization error bound for LapRLS trained on subsampled data, and propose to select a subset of data points to label by minimizing this upper bound. Since the minimization is a combinational problem, we relax it into continuous domain and solve it by projected gradient descent. Experiments on benchmark datasets show that the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
Natural Images, Gaussian Mixtures and Dead Leaves,Simple Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs) learned from pixels of natural image patches have been recently shown to be surprisingly strong performers in modeling the statistics of natural images. Here we provide an in depth analysis of this simple yet rich model. We show that such a GMM model is able to compete with even the most successful models of natural images in log likelihood scores, denoising performance and sample quality. We provide an analysis of what such a model learns from natural images as a function of number of mixture components --- including covariance structure, contrast variation and intricate structures such as textures, boundaries and more. Finally, we show that the salient properties of the GMM learned from natural images can be derived from a simplified Dead Leaves model which explicitly models occlusion, explaining its surprising success relative to other models.
Nystr{}m Method vs Random Fourier Features: A Theoretical and Empirical Comparison,Both random Fourier features and the Nystr{}m method have been successfully applied to efficient kernel learning. In this work, we investigate the fundamental difference between these two approaches, and how the difference could affect their generalization performances. Unlike approaches based on random Fourier features  where the basis functions (i.e., cosine and sine functions) are sampled from a distribution  {\it independent} from the training data, basis functions used by the Nystr{}m method are randomly sampled from the training examples and are therefore {\it data dependent}. By exploring this difference, we show that when there is a large gap in the eigen-spectrum of the kernel matrix, approaches based the Nystr{}m method can yield  impressively  better generalization error bound than random Fourier features based approach. We empirically verify our theoretical findings on a wide range of large data sets.
Multiresolution Gaussian Processes,We propose a multiresolution Gaussian process to capture long-range, non-Markovian dependencies while allowing for abrupt changes.  The multiresolution GP hierarchically couples a collection of smooth GPs, each defined over an element of a random nested partition.  Long-range dependencies are captured by the top-level GP while the partition points define the abrupt changes.  Due to the inherent conjugacy of the GPs, one can analytically marginalize the GPs and compute the conditional likelihood of the observations given the partition tree.  This allows for efficient inference of the partition itself, for which we employ graph-theoretic techniques.  We apply the multiresolution GP to the analysis of Magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings of brain activity.
Robustness and risk-sensitivity in Markov decision processes,We uncover relations between robust MDPs and risk-sensitive MDPs.  The objective of a robust MDP is to minimize a function, such as the expectation of cumulative cost, for the worst case when the parameters have uncertainties.  The objective of a risk-sensitive MDP is to minimize a risk measure of the cumulative cost when the parameters are known.  We show that a risk-sensitive MDP of minimizing the expected exponential utility is equivalent to a robust MDP of minimizing the worst-case expectation with a penalty for the deviation of the uncertain parameters from their nominal values, which is measured with the Kullback-Leibler divergence.  We also show that a risk-sensitive MDP of minimizing an iterated risk measure that is composed of certain coherent risk measures is equivalent to a robust MDP of minimizing the worst-case expectation when the possible deviations of uncertain parameters from their nominal values are characterized with a concave function.
Shifting Weights: Adapting Object Detectors from Image to Video,Typical object detectors trained on images perform poorly on video, as there is a clear distinction in domain between the two types of data. In this paper, we tackle the problem of adapting object detectors learned from images to work well on videos. We treat the problem as one of unsupervised domain adaptation, in which we are given labeled data from the source domain (image), but only unlabeled data from the target domain (video). Our approach, self-paced domain adaptation, seeks to iteratively adapt the detector by re-training the detector with automatically discovered target domain examples, starting with the easiest first. At each iteration, the algorithm adapts by considering an increased number of target domain examples, and a decreased number of source domain examples. To discover target domain examples from the vast amount of video data, we introduce a simple, robust approach that scores trajectory tracks instead of bounding boxes. We also show how rich and expressive features specific to the target domain can be incorporated under the same framework. We show promising results on the 2011 TRECVID Multimedia Event Detection and LabelMe Video datasets that illustrate the benefit of our approach to adapt object detectors to video.
A quasi-Newton proximal splitting method,We describe efficient implementations of the proximity calculation for a useful class of functions; the implementations exploit the piece-wise linear nature of the dual problem. The second part of the paper applies the previous result to acceleration of convex minimization problems, and leads to an elegant quasi-Newton method. The optimization method compares favorably against state-of-the-art alternatives. The algorithm has extensive applications including signal processing, sparse regression and recovery, and machine learning and classification.
Latent Coincidence Analysis: A Hidden Variable Model for Distance Metric Learning,We describe a latent variable model for supervised dimensionality reduction and distance metric learning. The model discovers linear projections of high dimensional data that shrink the distance between similarly labeled inputs and expand the distance between differently labeled ones. The models continuous latent variables locate pairs of examples in a latent space of lower dimensionality. The model differs significantly from classical factor analysis in that the posterior distribution over these latent variables is not always multivariate Gaussian. Nevertheless we show that inference is completely tractable and derive an Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm for parameter estimation. We also compare the model to other approaches in distance metric learning. The models main advantage is its simplicity: at each iteration of the EM algorithm, the distance metric is re-estimated by solving an unconstrained least-squares problem. Experiments show that these simple updates are highly effective.
Proximal Newton-type Methods for Minimizing Convex Objective Functions in Composite Form,We consider minimizing convex objective functions in \emph{composite form} \begin{align*}   \minimize_{x\in\R^n} f(x) := g(x) + h(x), \end{align*} where $g$ is convex and twice-continuously differentiable and $h:\R^n\to\R$ is a convex but not necessarily differentiable function whose proximal mapping can be evaluated efficiently. We derive a generalization of Newton-type methods to handle such convex but nonsmooth objective functions. Many problems of relevance in high-dimensional statistics, machine learning, and signal processing can be formulated in composite form. We prove such methods are globally convergent to a minimizer and achieve quadratic rates of convergence in the vicinity of a unique minimizer. We also demonstrate the performance of such methods using problems of relevance in machine learning and high-dimensional statistics.
GenDeR: A Generic Diversified Ranking Algorithm,Diversified ranking is a fundamental task in machine learning. It is broadly applicable in many real world problems, e.g., information retrieval, team assembling, product search, etc. In this paper, we consider a generic setting where we aim to diversify the top-k ranking list based on an arbitrary relevance function and an arbitrary similarity function among all the examples. We formulate it as an optimization problem and show that in general it is NP-hard. Then, we show that for a large volume of the parameter space, the proposed objective function enjoys the diminishing returns property, which enables us to design a scalable, greedy algorithm to find the near-optimal solution. Experimental results on real data sets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
Cocktail Party Processing via Structured Prediction,While human listeners excel at selectively attending to a conversation in a cocktail party, machine performance is still far inferior by comparison. We show that the cocktail party problem, or the speech separation problem, can be effectively approached via structured prediction. To account for temporal dynamics in speech, we employ conditional random fields (CRFs) to classify speech dominance within each time-frequency unit for a sound mixture. To capture complex, nonlinear relationship between input and output, both state and transition feature functions in CRFs are learned by deep neural networks. The formulation of the problem as classification allows us to directly optimize a measure that is well correlated with human speech intelligibility. The proposed system substantially outperforms existing ones in a variety of noises.
Bandit Algorithms boost Brain Computer Interfaces for motor-task selection of a brain-controlled button,A brain-computer interface (BCI) allows users to communicate with a computer without using their muscles. BCI based on sensori-motor rhythms use imaginary motor tasks, such as moving the right or left hand to send control signals. The performances of a BCI can vary greatly across users but also depend on the tasks used, making the problem of appropriate task selection an important issue. This study presents a new procedure to automatically select as fast as possible a discriminant motor task for a brain-controlled button. We develop for this purpose an adaptive algorithm UCB-classif based on the stochastic bandit theory. This shortens the training stage, thereby allowing the exploration of a greater variety of tasks. By not wasting time on inefficient tasks, and focusing on the most promising ones, this algorithm results in a faster task selection and a more efficient use of the BCI training session. Comparing the proposed method to the standard practice in task selection, for a fixed time budget, UCB-classif leads to an improve classification rate, and for a fix classification rate, to a reduction of the time spent in training by 50%.
Gradient-based kernel method for feature extraction and variable selection,We propose a novel kernel approach to dimension reduction for supervised learning: feature extraction and variable selection; the former constructs a small number of features from predictors, and the latter finds a subset of predictors. First, a method of linear feature extraction is proposed using the gradient of regression function, based on the recent development of the kernel method.  In comparison with other existing methods, the proposed one has wide applicability without strong assumptions on the regressor or type of variables, and uses computationally simple eigendecomposition, thus applicable to large data sets.  Second, in combination of a sparse penalty, the method is extended to variable selection, following the approach by Chen et al. (2010).  Experimental results show that the proposed methods successfully find effective features and variables without parametric models.
Hamming Distance Metric Learning,Motivated by large-scale multimedia applications we propose to learn mappings from high-dimensional data to binary codes that preserve semantic similarity. Binary codes are well suited to large-scale applications as they are storage efficient and permit exact sub-linear kNN search. The framework is applicable to broad families of mappings, and uses a flexible form of triplet ranking loss. We overcome discontinuous optimization of the discrete mappings by minimizing a piecewise-smooth upper bound on empirical loss, inspired by latent structural SVMs.  We develop a new loss-augmented inference algorithm that is quadratic in the code length.  We show strong retrieval performance on CIFAR-10 and MNIST, with promising classification results using no more than kNN on the binary codes.
Recursive Deep Learning on 3D Point Clouds,Recent advances in 3D sensing technologies make it possible to easily record color and depth images which together can improve object recognition. Most current methods rely on very well-designed features for this new 3D modality. We introduce a novel model based on sparse and recursive autoencoders (RAE) for learning both features and object categories from raw 3D point clouds as well as standard images. The model differs from previous RAE models in that it fixes the tree structures and includes short-circuit connections from all tree nodes to the final classifier. This allows the model to take into consideration both low-level features as well as global features of the object. Using our fully learned architecture, we achieve state of the art performance on a standard RGB-D object recognition dataset, rivaling random forest classifiers on hand-designed features such as SIFT and spin images. Our method is very fast and can classify 71 images in 1 second on a standard desktop machine in Matlab. This is possible because the method only requires 16 matrix multiplications to classify each image into one of 51 household objects.
Dual-Space Analysis of the Sparse Linear Model,Sparse linear (or generalized linear) models combine a standard likelihood function with a sparse prior on the unknown coefficients.  These priors can conveniently be expressed as a maximization over zero-mean Gaussians with different variance hyperparameters.  Standard MAP estimation (Type I) involves maximizing over both the hyperparameters and coefficients, while an empirical Bayesian alternative (Type II) first marginalizes the coefficients and then maximizes over the hyperparameters, leading to a tractable posterior approximation.  The underlying cost functions can be related via a dual-space framework from Wipf et al. (2011), which allows both the Type I or Type II objectives to be expressed in either coefficient or hyperparmeter space.  This perspective is useful because some analyses or extensions are more conducive to development in one space or the other.  Herein we consider the estimation of a trade-off parameter balancing sparsity and data fit.  As this parameter is effectively a variance, natural estimators exist by assessing the problem in hyperparameter (variance) space, transitioning natural ideas from Type II to solve what is much less intuitive for Type I.  In contrast, for analyses of update rules and sparsity properties of local and global solutions, as well as extensions to more general likelihood models, we can leverage coefficient-space techniques developed for Type I and apply them to Type II.  For example, this allows us to prove that Type II-inspired techniques can be successful recovering sparse coefficients when unfavorable restricted isometry properties (RIP) lead to failure of popular L1 reconstructions. It also facilitates the analysis of Type II when non-Gaussian likelihood models lead to intractable integrations.
Forging The Graphs: A Low Rank and Positive Semidefinite Graph Learning Approach,In many graph-based machine learning and data mining approaches, the quality of the graph is critical. However, in real-world applications, especially in semi-supervised learning and unsupervised learning, the evaluation of the quality of a graph is often expensive and sometimes even impossible, due the cost or the unavailability of ground truth. In this paper, we proposed a robust approach with convex optimization to ``forge'' a graph: with an input of a graph, to learn a graph with higher quality. Our major concern is that an ideal graph shall satisfy all the following constraints: non-negative, symmetric, low rank, and positive semidefinite. We develop a graph learning algorithm by solving a convex optimization problem and further develop an efficient optimization to obtain global optimal solutions with theoretical guarantees. With only one non-sensitive parameter, our method is shown by experimental results to be robust and achieve higher accuracy in semi-supervised learning and clustering under various settings. As a preprocessing of graphs, our method has a wide range of potential applications machine learning and data mining.
Exact and Stable Recovery of Sequences of Signals with Sparse Increments via Differential 1-Minimization,We consider the problem of recovering a sequence of vectors, $(x_k)_{k=0}^K$, for which the increments $x_k-x_{k-1}$ are $S_k$-sparse (with $S_k$ typically smaller than $S_1$), based on linear measurements $(y_k = A_k x_k + e_k)_{k=1}^K$, where $A_k$ and $e_k$ denote the measurement matrix and noise, respectively. Assuming each $A_k$ obeys the restricted isometry property (RIP) of a certain order---depending only on $S_k$---we show that in the absence of noise a convex program, which minimizes the weighted sum of the $\ell_1$-norm of successive differences subject to the linear measurement constraints, recovers the sequence $(x_k)_{k=1}^K$ \emph{exactly}. This is an interesting result because this convex program is equivalent to a standard compressive sensing problem with a highly-structured aggregate measurement matrix which does not satisfy the RIP requirements in the standard sense, and yet we can achieve exact recovery. In the presence of bounded noise, we propose a quadratically-constrained convex program for recovery and derive bounds on the reconstruction error of the sequence. We supplement our theoretical analysis with simulations and an application to real video data. These further support the validity of the proposed approach for acquisition and recovery of signals with time-varying sparsity.
A Bayesian Approach for Policy Learning from Trajectory Preference Queries,We consider the problem of learning control policies via trajectory preference queries to an expert. In particular, the learning agent can present an expert with short runs of a pair of policies originating from the same state and the expert then indicates the preferred trajectory. The agent's goal is to elicit a latent target policy from the expert with as few queries as possible. To tackle this problem we propose a novel Bayesian model of the querying process and introduce two methods that exploit this model to actively select expert queries. Experimental results on four benchmark problems indicate that our model can effectively learn policies from trajectory preference queries and that active query selection can be substantially more efficient than random selection.
Coupling Nonparametric Mixtures via Latent Dirichlet Processes,Mixture distributions are often used to model complex data. In this paper, we develop a new method that jointly estimates mixture models over multiple data sets by exploiting the statistical dependencies between them. Specifically, we introduce a set of latent Dirichlet processes as sources of component models (atoms), and for each data set, we construct a nonparametric mixture model by combining sub-sampled versions of the latent DPs. Each mixture model may acquire atoms from different latent DPs, while each atom may be shared by multiple mixtures. This multi-to-multi association distinguishes the proposed method from prior constructions that rely on tree or chain structures, allowing mixture models to be coupled more flexibly. In addition, we derive a sampling algorithm that jointly infers the model parameters and present experiments on both document analysis and image modeling.
How Prior Probability Influences Decision Making: A Unifying Probabilistic Model,How does the brain combine prior knowledge with sensory evidence when making decisions under uncertainty? Two competing descriptive models have been proposed based on experimental data.  The first posits an additive offset to a decision variable, implying a static effect of the prior. However, this model is inconsistent with recent data from a motion discrimination task involving temporal integration of uncertain sensory evidence. To explain this data, a second model has been proposed which assumes a time-varying influence of the prior. Here we present a normative model of decision making that incorporates prior knowledge in a principled way.  We show that the additive offset model and the time-varying prior model emerge naturally when decision making is viewed within the framework of partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs).  Decision making in the model reduces to (1) computing beliefs given observations and prior information in a Bayesian manner, and (2) selecting actions based on these beliefs to maximize the  expected sum of future rewards. We show that the model can explain both  data previously explained using the additive offset model as well as more  recent data on the time-varying influence of prior knowledge on decision making.
Learning Label Trees for Probabilistic Modelling of Implicit Feedback,User preferences for items can be inferred from either explicit feedback, such as item ratings, or implicit feedback, such as rental histories. Research in collaborative filtering has concentrated on explicit feedback, resulting in the development of accurate and scalable models. However, since explicit feedback is often difficult to collect it is important to develop effective models that take advantage of the more widely available implicit feedback. We introduce a probabilistic approach to collaborative filtering with implicit feedback based on modelling the user's item selection process. In the interests of scalability, we restrict our attention to tree-structured distributions over items and develop a principled and efficient algorithm for learning item trees from data. We also identify a problem with a widely used protocol for evaluating implicit feedback models and propose a way of addressing it using a small quantity of explicit feedback data.
CPRL -- An Extension of Compressive Sensing to the Phase Retrieval Problem,While compressive sensing (CS) has been one of the most vibrant and active research fields in the past few years, most development only applies to linear models. This limits its application and excludes many areas where CS ideas could make a difference. This paper presents a novel extension of CS to the phase retrieval problem, where intensity measurements of a linear system are used to recover a complex sparse signal. We propose a novel solution using a lifting technique -- CPRL, which relaxes the NP-hard problem to a nonsmooth semidefinite program. Our analysis shows that CPRL inherits many desirable properties from CS, such as guarantees for exact recovery. We further provide scalable numerical solvers to accelerate its implementation. The source code of our algorithms will be provided to the public.
Factoring nonnegative matrices with linear programs,This paper describes a new approach for computing nonnegative matrix factorizations (NMFs) with linear programming. The key idea is a data-driven model for the factorization, in which the most salient features in the data are used to express the remaining features.  More precisely, given a data matrix X, the algorithm identifies a matrix C that satisfies X = CX and some linear constraints.  The matrix C selects features, which are then used to compute a low-rank NMF of X.  A theoretical analysis demonstrates that this approach has the same type of guarantees as the recent NMF algorithm of Arora et al.~(2012).  In contrast with this earlier work, the proposed method has (1) better noise tolerance, (2) extends to more general noise models, and (3) leads to efficient, scalable algorithms.  Experiments with synthetic and real datasets provide evidence that the new approach is also superior in practice.  An optimized C++ implementation of the new algorithm can factor a multi-Gigabyte matrix in a matter of minutes.
Nonparametric Reduced Rank Regression,We propose an approach to multivariate nonparametric regression that generalizes reduced rank regression for linear models.  An additive model is estimated for each dimension of a $q$-dimensional response, with a shared $p$-dimensional predictor variable.  To control the complexity of the model, we employ a functional form of the Ky-Fan or nuclear norm, resulting in a set of function estimates that have low rank.  Backfitting algorithms are derived and justified using a nonparametric form of the nuclear norm subdifferential.  Oracle inequalities on excess risk are derived that exhibit the scaling behavior of the procedure in the high dimensional setting.  The methods are illustrated on gene expression data.
Parametric Local Metric Learning for Nearest Neighbor Classification,We study the problem of learning local metrics for nearest neighbor classification. Most previous works on local metric learning learn a number of local unrelated metrics. While this ''independence'' approach delivers an increased flexibility its downside is the considerable risk of overfitting. We present a new parametric local metric learning method in which we learn a smooth metric matrix function over the data manifold. Using an approximation error bound of the metric matrix function we learn local metrics as linear combinations of basis metrics defined on anchor points over different regions of the instance space.  We constrain the metric matrix function by imposing on the linear combinations manifold regularization which makes the learned metric matrix function vary smoothly along the geodesics of the data manifold. Our metric learning method has excellent performance both in terms of predictive power and scalability. We experimented with several large-scale classification problems, tens of thousands of instances, and compared it with several state of the art metric learning methods, both global and local, as well as to SVM with automatic kernel selection, all of which it outperforms in a significant manner.
Non-parametric Approximate Dynamic Programming via the Kernel Method,This paper presents a novel non-parametric approximate dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm that enjoys graceful, dimension-independent approximation and sample complexity guarantees. In particular, we establish both theoretically and computationally that our proposal can serve as a viable alternative to state-of-the-art parametric ADP algorithms, freeing the designer from carefully specifying an approximation architecture. We accomplish this by developing a kernel-based mathematical program for ADP. Via a computational study on a controlled queueing network, we show that our non-parametric procedure is competitive with parametric ADP approaches.
Neuronal spike generation mechanism as an oversampling, noise-shaping A-to-D converter,We explore the hypothesis that the neuronal spike generation mechanism is an analog-to-digital converter, which rectifies low-pass filtered summed synaptic currents and encodes them into spike trains linearly decodable in post-synaptic neurons. To digitally encode an analog current waveform, the sampling rate of the spike generation mechanism must exceed its Nyquist rate. Such oversampling is consistent with the experimental observation that the precision of the spike-generation mechanism is an order of magnitude greater than the cut-off frequency of dendritic low-pass filtering. To achieve additional reduction in the error of analog-to-digital conversion, electrical engineers rely on noise-shaping. If noise-shaping were used in neurons, it would introduce correlations in spike timing to reduce low-frequency (up to Nyquist) transmission error at the cost of high-frequency one (from Nyquist to sampling rate). Using experimental data from three different classes of neurons, we demonstrate that biological neurons utilize noise-shaping. We also argue that rectification by the spike-generation mechanism may improve energy efficiency and carry out de-noising. Finally, the zoo of ion channels in neurons may be viewed as a set of predictors, various subsets of which are activated depending on the statistics of the input current.
Bayesian Nonparametric Modeling of Suicide Attempts,The National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions (NESARC) database contains a large amount of information, regarding the way of life, medical conditions, depression, etc., of a representative sample of the U.S. population. In the present paper, we are interested in seeking the hidden causes behind the suicide attempts, for which we propose to model the subjects using a nonparametric latent model based on the Indian Buffet Process (IBP). Due to the nature of the data, we need to adapt the observation model for discrete random variables. We propose a generative model in which the observations are drawn from a multinomial-logit distribution given the IBP matrix. The implementation of an efficient Gibbs sampler is accomplished using the Laplace approximation, which allows us to integrate out the weighting factors of the  multinomial-logit likelihood model. Finally, the experiments over the NESARC database show that our model properly captures some of the hidden causes that model suicide attempts.
Dynamical And-Or Graph Learning for Object Shape Modeling and Detection,This paper studies a novel discriminative part-based model to represent and recognize object shapes with an And-Or graph. We define this model consisting of three layers: the leaf-nodes with collaborative edges for localizing local parts, the or-nodes specifying the switch of leaf-nodes, and the root-node encoding the global verification. A discriminative learning algorithm, extended from the CCCP [23], is proposed to train the model in a dynamical manner: the model structure (e.g., the configuration of the leaf-nodes associated with the or-nodes) is automatically determined with optimizing the multi-layer parameters during the iteration. The advantages of our method are two-fold. (i) The And-Or graph model enables us to handle well large intra-class variance and background clutters for object shape detection from images. (ii) The proposed learning algorithm is able to obtain the And-Or graph representation without requiring elaborate supervision and initialization. We validate the proposed method on several challenging databases (e.g., INRIA-Horse, ETHZ-Shape, and UIUC-People), and it outperforms the state-of-the-arts approaches.
Searching for objects driven by context,The dominant visual search paradigm for object class detection is sliding windows. Although simple and effective, it is also wasteful, unnatural and rigidly hardwired. We propose strategies to search for objects which intelligently explore the space of windows by making sequential observations at locations decided based on previous observations. Our strategies adapt to the class being searched and to the content of a particular test image. Their driving force is exploiting context as the statistical relation between the appearance of a window and its location relative to the object, as observed in the training set. In addition to being more elegant than sliding windows, we demonstrate experimentally on the PASCAL VOC 2010 dataset that our strategies evaluate two orders of magnitude fewer windows while at the same time achieving higher detection accuracy.
Delay Compensation with Dynamical Synapses,Time delay is pervasive in neural information processing. To achieve real-time tracking, it is critical to compensate the transmission and processing delays in a neural system. In the present study we show that dynamical synapses with short-term depression can enhance the mobility of a continuous attractor network to the extent that the system tracks time-varying stimuli in a timely manner. The state of the network can either track the instantaneous position of a moving stimulus perfectly (with zero-lag) or lead it with an effectively constant time, in agreement with experiments on the head-direction systems in rodents. The parameter regions for delayed, perfect and anticipative tracking correspond to network states that are static, ready-to-move and spontaneously moving, respectively, demonstrating the strong correlation between tracking performance and the intrinsic dynamics of the network. We also find that when the speed of the stimulus coincides with the natural speed of the network state, the delay becomes effectively independent of the stimulus amplitude.
Trajectory-Based Short-Sighted Probabilistic Planning,Probabilistic planning captures the uncertainty of plan execution by probabilistically modeling the effects of actions in the environment, and therefore the probability of reaching different states from a given state and action. In order to compute a solution for a probabilistic planning problem, planners need to manage the uncertainty associated with the different paths from the initial state to a goal state. Several approaches to manage uncertainty were proposed, e.g., consider all paths at once, perform determinization of actions, and sampling. In this paper, we introduce trajectory-based short-sighted Stochastic Shortest Path Problems (SSPs), a novel approach to manage uncertainty for probabilistic planning problems in which states reachable with low probability are substituted by artificial goals that heuristically estimate their cost to reach a goal state. We also extend the theoretical results of Short-Sighted Probabilistic Planner (SSiPP) [ref] by proving that SSiPP always finishes and is asymptotically optimal under sufficient conditions on the structure of short-sighted SSPs.  We empirically compare SSiPP using trajectory-based short-sighted SSPs with the winners of the previous probabilistic planning competitions and other state-of-the-art planners in the triangle tireworld problems. Trajectory-based SSiPP outperforms all the competitors and is the only planner able to scale up to problem number 60, a problem in which the optimal solution contains approximately $10^{70}$ states.
Reducing statistical time-series problems to  binary classification,We  show how binary classification methods developed to work on i.i.d. data can be  used for solving  statistical problems that are seemingly unrelated to classification and concern highly-dependent time series.  Specifically, the problems of time-series  clustering, homogeneity testing and the three-sample problem  are addressed. The algorithms that we construct for solving  these problems are based on a new metric between time-series distributions, which can be evaluated using binary classification methods.  Universal consistency of the  proposed algorithms  is proven under most general assumptions. The theoretical results are illustrated with experiments on synthetic and real-world data.
Learning from Distributions via Support Measure Machines,This paper presents a kernel-based discriminative learning framework on probability measures. Rather than relying on large collections of vectorial training examples, our framework learns using a collection of probability distributions that have been constructed to meaningfully represent training data. By representing these probability distributions as mean embeddings in the reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS), we are able to apply many standard kernel-based learning techniques in straightforward fashion. To accomplish this, we construct a generalization of the support vector machine (SVM) called a support measure machine (SMM). Our analyses of SMMs provides several insights into their relationship to traditional SVMs. Based on such insights, we propose a flexible SVM (Flex-SVM) that places different kernel functions on each training example. Experimental results on both synthetic and real-world data demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed framework.
Gradient Weights help Nonparametric Regressors,In regression problems over $\real^d$, the unknown function $f$ often varies more in some coordinates than in others. We show that weighting each coordinate $i$ with the estimated norm of the $i$th derivative of $f$  is an efficient way to significantly improve the performance of distance-based regressors, e.g. kernel and $k$-NN regressors.  We propose a simple estimator of these derivative norms and prove its consistency. Moreover, the proposed  estimator is efficiently learned online.
Joint Modeling of a Matrix with Associated Text via Latent Binary Features,A new methodology is developed for joint analysis of a matrix and accompanying documents, with the documents associated with the matrix rows/columns. The documents are modeled with a focused topic model, inferring latent binary features (topics) for each document. A new matrix decomposition is developed, with latent binary features associated with the rows/columns, and with imposition of a low-rank constraint. The matrix decomposition and topic model are coupled by sharing the latent binary feature vectors associated with each. The model is applied to roll-call data, with the associated documents defined by the legislation. State-of-the-art results are manifested for prediction of votes on a new piece of legislation, based only on the observed text legislation. The coupling of the text and legislation is also demonstrated to yield insight into the properties of the matrix decomposition for roll-call data.
Strategic Impatience in Go/NoGo versus Forced-Choice Decision-Making,Two-alternative forced choice (2AFC) and Go/NoGo (GNG) tasks are behavioral choice paradigms commonly used to study sensory and cognitive processing in choice behavior. While GNG is thought to isolate the sensory/decisional component by removing the need for response selection, a consistent bias towards the Go response (higher hits and false alarm rates) in the GNG task suggests possible fundamental differences in the sensory or cognitive processes engaged in the two tasks. Existing mechanistic models of these choice tasks, mostly variants of the drift-diffusion model (DDM; [1,2]) and the related leaky competing accumulator models [3,4] capture various aspects of behavior but do not address the provenance of the Go bias.  We postulate that this ``impatience'' to go is a strategic adjustment in response to the implicit asymmetry in the cost structure of GNG: the NoGo response requires waiting until the response deadline, while a Go response immediately terminates the current trial. We show that a Bayes-risk minimizing decision policy that minimizes both error rate and average decision delay naturally exhibits the experimentally observed bias.  The optimal decision policy is formally equivalent to a DDM with a time-varying threshold that initially rises after stimulus onset, and collapses again near the response deadline. The initial rise is due to the fading temporal advantage of choosing the Go response over the fixed-delay NoGo response. We show that fitting a simpler, fixed-threshold DDM to the optimal model reproduces the counterintuitive result of a higher threshold in GNG than 2AFC decision-making, previously observed in direct DDM fit to behavioral data [2], although such approximations cannot reproduce the Go bias. Thus, observed discrepancies between GNG and 2AFC decision-making may arise from rational strategic adjustments to the cost structure, and need not imply additional differences in the underlying sensory and cognitive processes.
Online Regret Bounds for Undiscounted Continuous Reinforcement Learning,We derive sublinear regret bounds for undiscounted reinforcement learning in continuous state space. The proposed algorithm combines state aggregation with the use of upper confidence bounds for implementing optimism in the face of uncertainty.  Beside the existence of an optimal policy which satisfies the Poisson equation, the only assumptions made are Hoelder continuity of rewards and transition probabilities.
Link Prediction in Graphs with Autoregressive Features,In the paper, we consider the problem of link prediction in time-evolving graphs. We assume that certain graph features, such as the node degree, follow a vector autoregressive (VAR) model and we propose to use this information to improve the accuracy of prediction. Our strategy involves a joint optimization procedure over the space of adjacency matrices and VAR matrices which takes into account both sparsity and low rank properties of the matrices. Oracle inequalities are derived and illustrate the trade-offs in the choice of smoothing parameters when modeling the joint effect of sparsity and low rank property. The estimate is computed efficiently using proximal methods through a generalized forward-backward agorithm.
Learning with Recursive Perceptual Representations,Linear Support Vector Machines (SVMs) have become very popular in vision as part of state-of-the-art object recognition and other classification tasks but require high dimensional feature spaces for good performance. Deep learning methods can find more compact representations but current methods employ multilayer perceptrons that require solving a difficult, non-convex optimization problem. We propose a deep non-linear classifier whose layers are SVMs and which incorporates random projection as its core stacking element. Our method learns layers of linear SVMs recursively transforming the original data manifold through a random projection of the weak prediction computed from each layer. Our method scales as linear SVMs, does not rely on any kernel computations or nonconvex optimization, and exhibits better generalization ability than kernel-based SVMs. This is especially true when the number of training samples is smaller than the dimensionality of data, a common scenario in many real-world applications. The use of random projections is key to our method, as we show in the experiments section, in which we observe a consistent improvement over previous --often more complicated-- methods on several vision and speech benchmarks.
Learning Image Descriptors with the Boosting-Trick,In this paper we  apply   boosting  to  learn   complex  non-linear  local   visual  feature representations, drawing  inspiration from its successful  application to visual object detection. The main  goal of  local feature descriptors  is to distinctively  represent a salient image  region while remaining invariant to  viewpoint and illumination changes. This representation can  be improved using machine learning, however, past approaches  have been mostly limited to learning  linear feature mappings in either the original input or a  kernelized input feature space.  While kernelized  methods have proven somewhat effective for learning non-linear local  feature descriptors,  they rely heavily  on the choice  of an appropriate kernel  function whose selection is often  difficult and non-intuitive. We propose  to use the boosting-trick  to  obtain a  non-linear  mapping  of  the input  to  a high-dimensional feature space. The non-linear feature mapping  obtained with the  boosting-trick is  highly intuitive. We employ gradient-based weak learners resulting in a learned descriptor that closely resembles the well-known SIFT. As demonstrated in our experiments, the resulting descriptor   can  be  learned   directly  from   intensity  patches  achieving state-of-the-art performance.
Value Pursuit Iteration,Value Pursuit Iteration (VPI) is an approximate value iteration algorithm that finds a close to optimal policy for  reinforcement learning and planning problems with large state spaces. VPI has two main features: First, it is a nonparametric algorithm that finds a good sparse approximation of the optimal value function given a dictionary of features. The algorithm is almost insensitive to the number of irrelevant features. Second, after each iteration of VPI, the algorithm adds a set of functions based on the currently learned value function to the dictionary. This increases the representation power of the dictionary in a way that is directly relevant to the goal of having a good approximation of the optimal value function. We theoretically study VPI and provide a finite-sample error upper bound for it.
Identification of Recurrent Patterns in the Activation of Brain Networks,Identifying patterns from the neuroimaging recordings of brain activity  related to the unobservable psychological or mental state of an individual can be treated as a unsupervised pattern recognition problem. The main challenges, however, for such an analysis of fMRI data are: a) defining a physiologically meaningful feature-space for representing the spatial patterns across time; b) dealing with the high-dimensionality of the data; and c) robustness to the various artifacts and confounds in the fMRI time-series.  In this paper, we present a network-aware feature-space to represent the states of a general network, that enables  comparing and clustering such states in a manner that is a) meaningful in terms of the network connectivity structure; b)computationally efficient; c) low-dimensional; and d) relatively robust to structured and random noise artifacts. This feature-space is obtained from a spherical relaxation of the transportation distance metric which measures the cost of transporting ``mass'' over the network to transform one function into another. Through theoretical and empirical assessments, we demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the approximation, especially for large problems.  While the application presented here is for identifying distinct brain activity patterns from fMRI, this feature-space can be applied to the problem of identifying recurring patterns and detecting outliers in measurements on many different types of networks, including sensor, control and social networks.
Multiple Operator-valued Kernel Learning,Positive definite operator-valued kernels generalize the well-known notion of reproducing kernels, and are naturally adapted to multi-output learning situations. This paper addresses the problem of learning a finite linear combination of infinite-dimensional operator-valued kernels which are suitable for extending functional data analysis methods to nonlinear contexts. We study this problem in the case of kernel ridge regression for functional responses with an lr-norm constraint on the combination coefficients. The resulting optimization problem is more involved than those of multiple scalar-valued kernel learning since operator-valued kernels pose more technical and theoretical issues. We propose a multiple operator-valued kernel learning algorithm based on solving a system of linear operator equations by using a block coordinate-descent procedure. We experimentally validate our approach on a functional regression task in the context of finger movement prediction in brain-computer interfaces.
Newton-Like Methods for Sparse Inverse Covariance Estimation,We propose two classes of second-order optimization methods for solving the sparse inverse covariance estimation problem. The first approach, which we call the Newton-LASSO method, minimizes a piecewise quadratic model of the objective function at every iteration to generate a step. We employ the fast iterative shrinkage thresholding method (FISTA) to solve this subproblem. The second approach, which we call the Orthant-Based Newton method, is a two-phase algorithm that first identifies an orthant face and then minimizes a smooth quadratic approximation of the objective function using the conjugate gradient method.  These methods exploit the structure of the Hessian to efficiently compute the search direction and to avoid explicitly storing the Hessian.  We show that quasi-Newton methods are also effective in this context, and describe a limited memory BFGS variant of the orthant-based Newton method.  We present numerical results that suggest that all the techniques described in this paper have attractive properties and constitute useful tools for solving the sparse inverse covariance estimation problem. Comparisons with the method implemented in the QUIC software package are presented.
Patient Risk Stratification for Hospital-Associated C. Diff as a Time-Series Classification Task,A patient's risk for adverse events is affected by temporal processes including the nature and timing of diagnostic and therapeutic activities, and the overall evolution of the patient's pathophysiology over time. Yet many investigators ignore this temporal aspect when modeling patient risk, considering only the patient's current or aggregate state. We explore representing patient risk as a time series. In doing so, patient risk stratification becomes a time-series classification task. The task differs from most applications of time-series analysis, like speech processing, since the time series itself must first be extracted. Thus, we begin by defining and extracting approximate \textit{risk processes}, the evolving approximate daily risk of a patient. Once obtained, we use these signals to explore different approaches to time-series classification with the goal of identifying high-risk patterns. We apply the classification to the specific task of identifying patients at risk of testing positive for hospital acquired colonization with \textit{Clostridium Difficile}. We achieve an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.79 on a held-out set of several hundred patients. Our two-stage approach to risk stratification outperforms classifiers that consider only a patient's current state (p$
Bayesian Warped Gaussian Processes,Warped Gaussian processes (WGP) [1] model output observations in regression tasks as a parametric nonlinear transformation of a Gaussian process (GP). The use of this nonlinear transformation, which is included as part of the probabilistic model, was shown to enhance performance by providing a better prior model on several data sets. In order to learn its parameters, maximum likelihood was used. In this work we show that it is possible to use a non-parametric nonlinear transformation in WGP and variationally integrate it out. The resulting Bayesian WGP is then able to work in scenarios in which the maximum likelihood WGP failed: Low data regime, data with censored values, classification, etc. We demonstrate the superior performance of Bayesian warped GPs on several real data sets.
On the Use of Non-Stationary Policies for Stationary Infinite-Horizon Markov Decision Processes,We consider infinite-horizon stationary $\gamma$-discounted Markov   Decision Processes, for which it is known that there exists a   stationary optimal policy. Using Value and Policy Iteration with   some error $\epsilon$ at each iteration, it is well-known that one   can compute stationary policies that are $\frac{2\gamma{(1-\gamma)^2}\epsilon$-optimal. After arguing that this   guarantee is tight, we develop variations of Value and Policy   Iteration for computing non-stationary policies that can be up to   $\frac{2\gamma}{1-\gamma}\epsilon$-optimal, which constitutes a significant   improvement in the usual situation when $\gamma$ is close to   $1$. Surprisingly, this shows that the problem of ``computing near-optimal non-stationary policies'' is much simpler than that   of ``computing near-optimal stationary policies''.
Efficient Exploration and Value Function Generalization in Deterministic Systems,We consider the problem of reinforcement learning over episodes of a finite-horizon deterministic system  and as a solution propose optimistic constraint propagation (OCP), an algorithm designed to synthesize efficient exploration and value function generalization. We establish that when the true value function lies within the given hypothesis class, OCP selects optimal actions over all but at most K episodes, where K is the eluder dimension of the given hypothesis class. We establish further efficiency and asymptotic performance guarantees that apply even if the true value function does not lie in the given hypothesis space, for  the special case where the hypothesis space is the span of pre-specified indicator functions over disjoint sets.
Local Privacy and Minimax Bounds: Sharp Rates for Probability Estimation,We provide a detailed study of the estimation of probability distributions---discrete and continuous---in a stringent setting in which data is kept private even from the statistician.  We give sharp minimax rates of convergence for estimation in these locally private settings, exhibiting fundamental tradeoffs between privacy and convergence rate, as well as providing tools to allow movement along the privacy-statistical efficiency continuum. One of the consequences of our results is that Warner's classical work on randomized response is an optimal way to perform survey sampling while maintaining privacy of the respondents.
Fast Determinantal Point Process Sampling with Application to Clustering,Determinantal Point Process (DPP) has gained much popularity for modeling sets of diverse items. The gist of DPP is that the probability of choosing a particular set of items is proportional to the determinant of a positive definite matrix that defines the similarity of those items. However, computing the determinant requires time cubic in the number of items, and is hence impractical for large sets. In this paper, we address this problem by constructing a rapidly mixing Markov chain, from which we can acquire a sample from the given DPP in sub-cubic time.  In addition, we show that this framework can be extended to sampling from cardinality-constrained DPPs. As an application, we show how our sampling algorithm can be used to provide a fast heuristic for determining the number of clusters, resulting in better clustering.
Compressive Feature Learning,This paper addresses the problem of unsupervised feature learning for text data. Our method is grounded in the principle of minimum description length and uses a dictionary-based compression scheme to extract a succinct feature set. Specifically, our method finds a set of word $k$-grams that minimizes the cost of reconstructing the text losslessly. We formulate document compression as a binary optimization task and show how to solve it approximately via a sequence of reweighted linear programs that are efficient to solve and parallelizable. As our method is unsupervised, features may be extracted once and subsequently used in a variety of tasks. We demonstrate the performance of these features over a range of scenarios including unsupervised exploratory analysis and supervised text categorization. Our compressed feature space is two orders of magnitude smaller than the full $k$-gram space and matches the text categorization accuracy achieved in the full feature space. This dimensionality reduction not only results in faster training times, but it can also help elucidate structure in unsupervised learning tasks and reduce the amount of training data necessary for supervised learning.
Stochastic Convex Optimization with Multiple  Objectives,In this paper, we are interested in the development of efficient algorithms  for convex optimization problems in the simultaneous presence of multiple objectives and stochasticity in the first-order information.   We  cast the stochastic multiple objective optimization problem into a constrained optimization problem by choosing one function as the objective and try to bound other objectives by appropriate thresholds.  We first examine  a two stages exploration-exploitation based algorithm which first approximates  the stochastic objectives by sampling  and  then solves a constrained stochastic optimization problem by projected gradient method. This method  attains a  suboptimal  convergence rate  even under  strong assumption on the objectives. Our second approach is an efficient primal-dual stochastic algorithm. It leverages on the theory of Lagrangian method in constrained optimization and attains  the optimal convergence rate of $[O(1/ \sqrt{T})]$ in high probability for general Lipschitz continuous objectives.
Deep content-based music recommendation,Automatic music recommendation has become an increasingly relevant problem in recent years, since a lot of music is now sold and consumed digitally. Most recommender systems rely on collaborative filtering. However, this approach suffers from the cold start problem: it fails when no usage data is available, so it is not effective for recommending new and unpopular songs. In this paper, we propose to use a latent factor model for recommendation, and predict the latent factors from music audio when they cannot be obtained from usage data. We compare a traditional approach using a bag-of-words representation of the audio signals with deep convolutional neural networks, and evaluate the predictions quantitatively and qualitatively on the Million Song Dataset. We show that using predicted latent factors produces sensible recommendations, despite the fact that there is a large semantic gap between the characteristics of a song that affect user preference and the corresponding audio signal. We also show that recent advances in deep learning translate very well to the music recommendation setting, with deep convolutional neural networks significantly outperforming the traditional approach.
Adaptive Submodular Maximization in Bandit Setting,Maximization of submodular functions has wide applications in machine learning and artificial intelligence. Adaptive submodular maximization has been traditionally studied under the assumption that the model of the world, the expected gain of choosing an item given previously selected items and their states, is known. In this paper, we study the scenario where the expected gain is initially unknown and it is learned by interacting repeatedly with the optimized function. We propose an efficient algorithm for solving our problem and prove that its expected cumulative regret increases logarithmically with time. Our regret bound captures the inherent property of submodular maximization, earlier mistakes are more costly than later ones. We refer to our approach as Optimistic Adaptive Submodular Maximization (OASM) because it trades off exploration and exploitation based on the optimism in the face of uncertainty principle. We evaluate our method on a preference elicitation problem and show that non-trivial K-step policies can be learned from just a few hundred interactions with the problem.
Correlated random features for fast semi-supervised learning,This paper presents Correlated Nystrom Views (XNV), a fast semi-supervised algorithm for regression and classification. The algorithm draws on two main ideas. First, it generates two views consisting of computationally inexpensive random features. Second, multiview regression, using Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA) on unlabeled data, biases the regression towards useful features. It has been shown that CCA regression can substantially reduce variance with a minimal increase in bias if the views contains accurate estimators. Recent theoretical and empirical work shows that regression with random features closely approximates kernel regression, implying that the accuracy requirement holds for random views. We show that XNV consistently outperforms a state-of-the-art algorithm for semi-supervised learning: substantially improving predictive performance and reducing the variability of performance on a wide variety of real-world datasets, whilst also reducing runtime by orders of magnitude.
Online Learning of Nonparametric Mixture Models via Sequential Variational Approximation,Reliance on computationally expensive algorithms for inference has been limiting the use of Bayesian nonparametric models in large scale applications. To tackle this problem, we propose a Bayesian learning algorithm for DP mixture models. Instead of following the conventional paradigm -- random initialization plus iterative update, we take an progressive approach. Starting with a given prior, our method recursively transforms it into an approximate posterior through sequential variational approximation. In this process, new components will be incorporated on the fly when needed. The algorithm can reliably estimate a DP mixture model in one pass, making it particularly suited for applications with massive data. Experiments on both synthetic data and real datasets demonstrate remarkable improvement on efficiency -- orders of magnitude speed-up compared to the state-of-the-art.
Projecting Ising Model Parameters for Fast Mixing,Inference in general Ising models is difficult, due to high treewidth making tree-based algorithms intractable. Moreover, when interactions are strong, Gibbs sampling may take exponential time to converge to the stationary distribution. We present an algorithm to project Ising model parameters onto a parameter set that is guaranteed to be fast mixing, under several divergences. We find that Gibbs sampling using the projected parameters is more accurate than with the original parameters when interaction strengths are strong and when limited time is available for sampling.
Learning Stochastic Inverses,We describe a class of algorithms for amortized inference in Bayesian networks. In this setting, we invest computation upfront to support rapid online inference for a wide range of queries. Our approach is based on learning an inverse factorization of a model's joint distribution: a factorization that turns observations into root nodes.  Our algorithms accumulate information to estimate the local conditional distributions that constitute such a factorization. These stochastic inverses can be used to invert each of the computation steps leading to an observation, sampling backwards in order to quickly find a likely explanation. We show that estimated inverses converge asymptotically in number of (prior or posterior) training samples.  To make use of inverses before convergence, we describe the Inverse MCMC algorithm, which uses stochastic inverses to make block proposals for a Metropolis-Hastings sampler.  We explore the efficiency of this sampler for a variety of parameter regimes and Bayes nets.
Active Learning for Probabilistic Hypotheses Using the Maximum Gibbs Error Criterion,We introduce a new objective function for pool-based Bayesian active learning with probabilistic hypotheses. This objective function, called the policy Gibbs error, is the expected error rate of a random classifier drawn from the prior distribution on the examples adaptively selected by the active learning policy. Exact maximization of the policy Gibbs error is hard, so we propose a greedy strategy that maximizes the Gibbs error at each iteration, where the Gibbs error on an instance is the expected error of a random classifier selected from the posterior label distribution on that instance. We apply this maximum Gibbs error criterion to three active learning scenarios: non-adaptive, adaptive, and batch active learning. In each scenario, we prove that the criterion achieves near-maximal policy Gibbs error when constrained to a fixed budget. For practical implementations, we provide approximations to the maximum Gibbs error criterion for Bayesian conditional random fields and transductive Naive Bayes. Our experimental results on a named entity recognition task and a text classification task show that the maximum Gibbs error criterion is an effective active learning criterion for noisy models.
When in Doubt, SWAP: High-Dimensional Sparse Recovery from Correlated Measurements,We consider the problem of accurately estimating a high-dimensional sparse vector using a small number of linear measurements that are contaminated by noise.  It is well known that standard computationally tractable sparse recovery algorithms, such as the Lasso, OMP, and their various extensions, perform poorly when the measurement matrix contains highly correlated columns.  We develop a simple greedy algorithm, called SWAP, that iteratively swaps variables until a desired loss function cannot be decreased any further.  SWAP is surprisingly effective in handling measurement matrices with high correlations.  We prove that SWAP can be easily used as a wrapper around standard sparse recovery algorithms for improved performance.  We theoretically quantify the statistical guarantees of SWAP and complement our analysis with numerical results on synthetic and real data.
Sensor Selection in High-Dimensional Gaussian Trees with Nuisances,We consider the sensor selection problem on multivariate Gaussian distributions where only a \emph{subset} of latent variables is of inferential interest.  For pairs of vertices connected by a unique path in the graph, we show that there exist decompositions of nonlocal mutual information into local information measures that can be computed efficiently from the output of message passing algorithms.  We integrate these decompositions into a computationally efficient greedy selector where the computational expense of quantification can be distributed across nodes in the network.  Experimental results demonstrate the comparative efficiency of our algorithms for sensor selection in high-dimensional distributions. We additionally derive an online-computable performance bound based on augmentations of the relevant latent variable set that, when such a valid augmentation exists, is applicable for \emph{any} distribution with nuisances.
On the Sample Complexity of Subspace Learning,A large number of algorithms in machine learning, from principal component analysis (PCA), and its non-linear (kernel) extensions, to more recent spectral embedding and support estimation methods, rely on estimating a linear subspace from samples.  In this paper we introduce  a general formulation  of this problem and derive novel learning error estimates. Our results rely on  natural  assumptions on the spectral properties of the covariance operator associated to  the data distribution, and hold for a wide class of metrics between subspaces. As special cases, we discuss sharp error estimates  for the reconstruction properties of PCA and spectral support estimation. Key to our analysis is an operator theoretic approach that has broad applicability to spectral learning methods.
Least Informative Dimensions,We present a novel non-parametric method for finding a subspace of stimulus features that contains all information about the response of a system. Our method generalizes similar approaches to this problem such as spike triggered average, spike triggered covariance, or maximally informative dimensions. Instead of maximizing the mutual information between features and responses directly, we use integral probability metrics in kernel Hilbert spaces to minimize the information between uninformative features and the combination of informative features and responses. Since estimators of these metrics access the data via kernels, are easy to compute, and exhibit good theoretical convergence properties, our method can easily be generalized to populations of neurons or spike patterns. By using a particular expansion of the mutual information, we can show that the informative features must contain all information if we can make the uninformative features independent of the rest.
Estimation, Optimization, and Parallelism when Data is Sparse,We study stochastic optimization problems when the \emph{data} is sparse,  which is in a sense dual to the current understanding of high-dimensional statistical learning and optimization. We highlight both the difficulties---in terms of increased sample complexity that sparse data necessitates---and the potential benefits, in terms of allowing parallelism and asynchrony in the design of algorithms. Concretely, we derive matching upper and lower bounds on the minimax rate for optimization and learning with sparse data, and we exhibit algorithms achieving these rates. Our algorithms are adaptive: they achieve the best possible rate for the data observed. We also show how leveraging sparsity leads to (still minimax optimal) parallel and asynchronous algorithms, providing experimental evidence complementing our theoretical results on medium to large-scale learning tasks.
Auditing: Active Learning with Outcome-Dependent Query Costs,We propose a learning setting in which unlabeled data is free, and the cost of a label depends on its value, which is not known in advance. We study binary classification in an extreme case, where the algorithm only pays for negative labels. Our motivation are applications such as fraud detection, in which investigating an honest transaction should be avoided if possible. We term the setting auditing, and consider the auditing complexity of an algorithm: The number of negative points it labels to learn a hypothesis with low relative error. We design auditing algorithms for thresholds on the line and axis-aligned rectangles, and show that with these algorithms, the auditing complexity can be significantly lower than the active label complexity. We discuss a general approach for auditing for a general hypothesis class, and describe several interesting directions for future work.
-Optimality for Active Learning on Gaussian Random Fields,A common classifier for unlabeled nodes on undirected graphs uses label propagation from the labeled nodes, equivalent to the harmonic predictor on Gaussian random fields (GRFs). For active learning on GRFs, the commonly used V-optimality criterion queries nodes that reduce the L2 (regression) loss. V-optimality satisfies a submodularity property showing that greedy reduction produces a (1  1/e) globally optimal solution. However, L2 loss may not characterise the true nature of 0/1 loss in classification problems and thus may not be the best choice for active learning. We consider a new criterion we call -optimality, which queries the node that minimizes the sum of the elements in the predictive covariance. -optimality directly optimizes the risk of the surveying problem, which is to determine the proportion of nodes belonging to one class. In this paper we extend submodularity guarantees from V-optimality to -optimality using properties specific to GRFs. We further show that GRFs satisfy the suppressor-free condition in addition to the conditional independence inherited from Markov random fields. We test -optimality on real-world graphs with both synthetic and real data and show that it outperforms V-optimality and other related methods on classification.
Improved and Generalized Upper Bounds on the Complexity of Policy Iteration,Given a Markov Decision Process (MDP) with $n$ states and $m$ actions per state, we study the number of iterations needed by Policy Iteration (PI) algorithms to converge to the optimal $\gamma$-discounted optimal policy. We consider two variations of PI: Howard's PI that changes the actions in all states with a positive advantage, and Simplex-PI that only changes the action in the state with maximal advantage. We show that Howard's PI terminates after at most  $ O \left( \frac{ n m}{1-\gamma} \log \left( \frac{1}{1-\gamma} \right)\right) $ iterations, improving by a factor $O(\log n)$ a result by Hansen et al. (2013), while Simplex-PI terminates after at most $ O \left(  \frac{n^2 m}{1-\gamma} \log \left( \frac{1}{1-\gamma} \right)\right) $ iterations, improving by a factor $O(\log n)$ a result by Ye (2011). Under some structural assumptions of the MDP, we then consider bounds that are independent of the discount factor~$\gamma$: given a measure of the maximal transient time $\tau_t$ and the maximal time $\tau_r$ to revisit states in recurrent classes under all policies, we show that Simplex-PI terminates after at most $ \tilde O \left( n^3 m^2 \tau_t \tau_r \right) $ iterations. This generalizes a recent result for deterministic MDPs by Post & Ye (2012), in which $\tau_t \le n$ and $\tau_r \le n$. We explain why similar results seem hard to derive for Howard's PI. Finally, under the additional (restrictive) assumption that the state space is partitioned in two sets, respectively states that are transient and recurrent for all policies, we show that Simplex-PI and Howard's PI terminate after at most  $ \tilde O(nm (\tau_t+\tau_r))$ iterations.
(Nearly) Optimal Algorithms for Private Online Learning in Full-information and Bandit Settings,We provide a general technique for making online learning algorithms differentially private, in both the full information and bandit settings. Our technique applies to algorithms that aim to minimize a \emph{convex} loss function which is a sum of smaller convex loss terms, one for each data point. We modify the popular \emph{mirror descent} approach, or rather a variant called \emph{follow the approximate leader}.    The technique leads to the first nonprivate algorithms for private online learning in the bandit setting. In the full information setting, our algorithms improve over the regret bounds of previous work.  In many cases, our algorithms (in both settings) matching the dependence on the input length, $T$, of the \emph{optimal nonprivate} regret bounds up to logarithmic factors in $T$. Our algorithms require logarithmic space and update time.
On Sampling from the Gibbs Distribution with Random Maximum A-Posteriori Perturbations,In this paper we describe how MAP inference can be used to sample efficiently from Gibbs distributions. Specifically, we provide  means for drawing either approximate or unbiased samples from Gibbs' distributions by introducing low dimensional perturbations and solving the corresponding MAP assignments. Our approach also leads to new ways to derive lower bounds on partition functions. We demonstrate empirically that our method excels in the typical "high signal - high coupling'' regime. The setting results in ragged energy landscapes that are challenging for alternative approaches to sampling and/or lower bounds.
Marginals-to-Models Reducibility,We consider a number of classical and new computational problems regarding marginal distributions, and inference in models specifying a full joint distribution. We prove general and efficient reductions between a number of these problems, which demonstrate that algorithmic progress in inference automatically yields progress for pure data problems. Our main technique involves formulating the problems as linear programs, and proving that the dual separation oracle for the Ellipsoid Method is provided by the target problem. This technique may be of independent interest in probabilistic inference.
Pass-efficient unsupervised feature selection,The goal of unsupervised feature selection is to identify a small number of important features that can represent the data. We propose a new algorithm, a modification of the classical pivoted QR algorithm of Businger and Golub, that requires a small number of passes over the data. The improvements are based on two ideas: keeping track of multiple features in each pass, and skipping calculations that can be shown not to affect the final selection. Our algorithm selects the exact same features as the classical pivoted QR algorithm, and has the same favorable numerical stability. We describe experiments on real-world datasets which sometimes show improvements of {\em several orders of magnitude} over the classical algorithm. These results appear to be competitive with  recently proposed randomized algorithms in terms of pass efficiency and run time. On the other hand, the randomized algorithms may produce better features, at the cost of small probability of failure.
Efficient Algorithm for Privately Releasing Smooth Queries,We study differentially private mechanisms for answering \emph{smooth} queries on databases consisting of data points in $\mathbb{R}^d$. A $K$-smooth query is specified by a function whose partial derivatives up to order $K$ are all bounded. We develop an $\epsilon$-differentially private mechanism which for the class of $K$-smooth queries has accuracy $O (\left(\frac{1}{n}\right)^{\frac{K}{2d+K}}/\epsilon)$. The mechanism first outputs a summary of the database. To obtain an answer of a query, the user runs a public evaluation algorithm which contains no information of the database. Outputting the summary runs in time $O(n^{1+\frac{d}{2d+K}})$, and the evaluation algorithm for answering a query runs in time $\tilde O (n^{\frac{d+2+\frac{2d}{K}}{2d+K}} )$. Our mechanism is based on $L_{\infty}$-approximation of (transformed) smooth functions by low degree even trigonometric polynomials with small and efficiently computable coefficients.
Streaming Variational Bayes,We present SDA-Bayes, a framework for (S)treaming, (D)istributed, (A)synchronous computation of a Bayesian posterior. The framework makes streaming updates to the estimated posterior according to a user-specified approximation primitive function.  We demonstrate the usefulness of our framework, with variational Bayes (VB) as the primitive, by fitting the latent Dirichlet allocation model to two large-scale document collections.  We demonstrate the advantages of our algorithm over stochastic variational inference (SVI), both in the single-pass setting SVI was designed for and in the streaming setting, to which SVI does not apply.
Bayesian optimization explains human active search,Many real-world problems have complicated objective functions. To optimize such functions, humans utilize sophisticated sequential decision-making strategies. Many optimization algorithms have also been developed for this same purpose, but how do they compare to humans in terms of both performance and behavior? We try to unravel the general underlying algorithm people may be using while searching for the maximum of an invisible 1D function. Subjects click on a blank screen and are shown the ordinate of the function at each clicked abscissa location. Their task is to find the functions maximum in as few clicks as possible. Subjects win if they get close enough to the maximum location. Analysis over 23 non-maths undergraduates, optimizing 25 functions from different families, shows that humans outperform 24 well-known optimization algorithms. Bayesian Optimization based on Gaussian Processes, which exploit all the x values tried and all the f(x) values obtained so far to pick the next x, predicts human performance and searched locations better. In 6 follow-up controlled experiments over 76 subjects, covering interpolation, extrapolation, and optimization tasks, we further confirm that Gaussian Processes provide a general and unified theoretical account to explain passive and active function learning and search in humans.
Online Learning of Dynamic Parameters in Social Networks,This paper addresses the problem of online learning in a dynamic setting. We consider a social network in which each individual observes a private signal about the underlying state of the world and communicates with her neighbors at each time period. Unlike many existing approaches, the underlying state is dynamic, and evolves according to a geometric random walk. We view the scenario as an optimization problem where agents aim to learn the true state while suffering the smallest possible loss. Based on the decomposition of the global loss function, we introduce two update mechanisms, each of which generates an estimate of the true state. We establish a tight bound on the rate of change of the underlying state, under which individuals can track the parameter with a bounded variance. Then, we characterize explicit expressions for the steady state mean-square deviation(MSD) of the estimates from the truth, per individual. We observe that only one of the estimators recovers the optimal MSD, which underscores the impact of the objective function decomposition on the learning quality. Finally, we provide an upper bound on the regret of the proposed methods, measured as an average of errors in estimating the parameter in a finite time.
Bayesian inference for low rank spatiotemporal neural receptive fields,The receptive field (RF) of a sensory neuron describes how the   neuron integrates sensory stimuli over time and space. In typical   experiments with naturalistic or flickering spatiotemporal stimuli,   RFs are very high-dimensional, due to the large number of   coefficients needed to specify an integration profile across time   and space.  Estimating these coefficients from small amounts of data   poses a variety of challenging statistical and computational   problems.  Here we address these challenges by developing Bayesian   reduced rank regression methods for RF estimation. This corresponds   to modeling the RF as a sum of several space-time separable (i.e.,   rank-1) filters, which proves accurate even for neurons with   strongly oriented space-time RFs.  This approach substantially   reduces the number of parameters needed to specify the RF, from   1K-100K down to mere 100s in the examples we consider, and confers   substantial benefits in statistical power and computational   efficiency.  In particular, we introduce a novel prior over low-rank   RFs using the restriction of a matrix normal prior to the manifold   of low-rank matrices. We then use a "localized'' prior over row and   column covariances to obtain sparse, smooth, localized estimates of   the spatial and temporal RF components.  We develop two methods for   inference in the resulting hierarchical model: (1) a fully Bayesian   method using blocked-Gibbs sampling; and (2) a fast, approximate   method that employs alternating coordinate ascent of the conditional   marginal likelihood.  We develop these methods under Gaussian and   Poisson noise models, and show that low-rank estimates substantially   outperform full rank estimates in accuracy and speed using neural   data from retina and V1.
Modeling Overlapping Communities with Node Popularities,We develop a probabilistic approach for accurate network modeling using node popularities within the framework of the mixed-membership stochastic blockmodel (MMSB). Our model integrates some of the basic properties of nodes in social networks: homophily and preferential connection to popular nodes. We develop a scalable algorithm for posterior inference, based on a novel nonconjugate variant of stochastic variational inference. We evaluate the link prediction accuracy of our algorithm on eight real-world networks with up to 60,000 nodes, and 24 benchmark networks. We demonstrate that our algorithm predicts better than the MMSB. Further, using benchmark networks we show that node popularities are essential to achieving high accuracy in the presence of skewed degree distribution and noisy links---both characteristics of real networks.
Spectral methods for neural characterization using generalized quadratic models,We describe a set of fast, tractable methods for characterizing neural responses to high-dimensional sensory stimuli using a model we refer to as the generalized quadratic model (GQM). The GQM consists of a low-rank quadratic form followed by a point nonlinearity and exponential-family noise. The quadratic form characterizes the neuron's stimulus selectivity in terms of a set linear receptive fields followed by a quadratic combination rule, and the invertible nonlinearity maps this output to the desired response range. Special cases of the GQM include the 2nd-order Volterra model (Marmarelis and Marmarelis 1978, Koh and Powers 1985) and the elliptical Linear-Nonlinear-Poisson model (Park and Pillow 2011). Here we show that for "canonical form" GQMs, spectral decomposition of the first two response-weighted moments yields approximate maximum-likelihood estimators via a quantity called the expected log-likelihood. The resulting theory generalizes moment-based estimators such as the spike-triggered covariance, and, in the Gaussian noise case, provides closed-form estimators under a large class of non-Gaussian stimulus distributions. We show that these estimators are fast and provide highly accurate estimates with far lower computational cost than full maximum likelihood. Moreover, the GQM provides a natural framework for combining multi-dimensional stimulus sensitivity and spike-history dependencies within a single model. We show applications to both analog and spiking data using intracellular recordings of V1 membrane potential and extracellular recordings of retinal spike trains.
Supervised Sparse Analysis and Synthesis Operators,In this paper, we propose a new and computationally efficient framework for learning sparse models. We formulate a unified approach that contains as particular cases models promoting sparse synthesis and analysis type of priors, and mixtures thereof. The supervised training of the proposed model is formulated as a bilevel optimization problem, in which the operators are optimized to achieve the best possible performance on a specific task, e.g., reconstruction or classification. By restricting the operators to be shift invariant, our approach can be thought as a way of learning analysis+synthesis sparsity-promoting convolutional operators. Leveraging recent ideas on fast trainable regressors designed to approximate exact sparse codes, we propose a way of constructing feed-forward neural networks capable of approximating the learned models at a fraction of the computational cost of exact solvers. In the shift-invariant case, this leads to a principled way of constructing task-specific convolutional networks. We illustrate the proposed models on several experiments in music analysis and image processing applications.
Relevance Topic Model for Unstructured Social Group Activity Recognition,Unstructured social group activity recognition in web videos is a challenging task due to 1) the semantic gap between class labels and low-level visual features and 2) the lack of labeled training data. To tackle this problem, we propose a "relevance topic model" for jointly learning meaningful mid-level representations upon bag-of-words (BoW) video representations and a classifier with sparse weights. In our approach, sparse Bayesian learning is incorporated into an undirected topic model (i.e., Replicated Softmax) to discover topics which are relevant to video classes and suitable for prediction. Rectified linear units are utilized to increase the expressive power of topics so as to explain better video data containing complex contents and make variational inference tractable for the proposed model. An efficient variational EM algorithm is presented for model parameter estimation and inference. Experimental results on the Unstructured Social Activity Attribute dataset show that our model achieves state of the art performance and outperforms other supervised topic model in terms of classification accuracy, particularly in the case of a very small number of labeled training videos.
Embed and Project: Discrete Sampling with Universal Hashing,We consider the problem of sampling from a probability distribution defined over a high-dimensional discrete set, specified for instance by a graphical model. We propose a sampling algorithm, called PAWS, based on embedding the set into a higher-dimensional space which is then randomly projected using universal hash functions to a lower-dimensional subspace and explored using combinatorial search methods. Our scheme can leverage fast combinatorial optimization tools as a blackbox and, unlike MCMC methods, samples produced are guaranteed to be within an (arbitrarily small) constant factor of the true probability distribution. We demonstrate that by using state-of-the-art combinatorial search tools, PAWS can efficiently sample from Ising grids with strong interactions and from software verification instances, while MCMC and variational methods fail in both cases.
A Graphical Transformation for Belief Propagation: Maximum Weight Matchings and Odd-Sized Cycles,Max-product belief propagation (BP) is a popular distributed heuristic for finding the Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) assignment in a joint probability distribution represented by a Graphical Model (GM). It was recently shown that BP converges to the correct MAP assignment for a class of loopy GMs with the following common feature: the Linear Programming (LP) relaxation to the MAP problem is tight (has no integrality gap). Unfortunately, tightness of the LP relaxation does not, in general, guarantee convergence and correctness of the BP algorithm. The failure of BP in such cases motivates reverse engineering a solution  namely, given a tight LP, can we design a good BP algorithm.  In this paper, we design a BP algorithm for the Maximum Weight Matching (MWM) problem over general graphs. We prove that the algorithm converges to the correct optimum if the respective LP relaxation, which may include inequalities associated with non-intersecting odd-sized cycles, is tight. The most significant part of our approach is the introduction of a novel graph transformation designed to force convergence of BP. Our theoretical result suggests an efficient BP-based heuristic for the MWM problem, which consists of making sequential, cutting plane, modifications to the underlying GM. Our experiments show that this heuristic performs as well as traditional cutting-plane algorithms using LP solvers on MWM problems.
The Power of Asymmetry in Binary Hashing,When approximating binary similarity using the hamming distance between short binary hashes, we shown that even if the similarity is symmetric, we can have shorter and more accurate hashes by using two distinct code maps. I.e.~by approximating the similarity between $x$ and $x'$ as the hamming distance between $f(x)$ and $g(x')$, for two distinct binary codes $f,g$, rather than as the hamming distance between $f(x)$ and $f(x')$.
Hierarchical Modular Optimization of Convolutional Networks Achieves Representations Similar to Macaque IT and Human Ventral Stream,Humans recognize visually-presented objects rapidly and accurately. To understand this ability, we seek to construct models of the ventral stream, the series of cortical areas thought to subserve object recognition. One tool to assess the quality of a model of the ventral stream is the Representation Dissimilarity Matrix (RDM), which uses a set of visual stimuli and measures the distances produced in either the brain (i.e. fMRI voxel responses, neural firing rates) or in models (features). Previous work has shown that all known models of the ventral stream fail to capture the RDM pattern observed in either IT cortex, the highest ventral area, or in the human ventral stream. In this work, we construct models of the ventral stream using a novel optimization procedure for category-level object recognition problems, and produce RDMs resembling both macaque IT and human ventral stream. The model, while novel in the optimization procedure, further develops a long-standing functional hypothesis that the ventral visual stream is a hierarchically arranged series of processing stages optimized for visual object recognition.
Computing the Stationary Distribution Locally,Computing the stationary distribution of a large finite or countably infinite state space Markov Chain (MC) has become central in many problems such as statistical inference and network analysis. Standard methods involve large matrix multiplications as in power iteration, or simulations of long random walks to sample states from the stationary distribution, as in Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). However these methods are computationally costly; either they involve operations at every state or they scale (in computation time) at least linearly in the size of the state space. In this paper, we provide a novel algorithm that answers whether a chosen state in a MC has stationary probability larger than some $\Delta \in (0,1)$. If so, it estimates the stationary probability. Our algorithm uses information from a local neighborhood of the state on the graph induced by the MC, which has constant size relative to the state space. We provide correctness and convergence guarantees that depend on the algorithm parameters and mixing properties of the MC. Simulation results show MCs for which this method gives tight estimates.
Reflection methods for user-friendly submodular optimization,Recently, it has become evident that submodularity naturally captures widely occurring concepts in machine learning, signal processing and computer vision. In consequence, there is need for efficient optimization procedures for submodular functions, in particular for minimization problems. While general submodular minimization is challenging, we propose a new approach that exploits existing decomposability of submodular functions. In contrast to previous approaches, our method is neither approximate, nor impractical, nor does it need any cumbersome parameter tuning. Moreover, it is easy to implement and parallelize. A key component of our approach is a formulation of the discrete submodular minimization problem as a continuous best approximation problem. It is solved through a sequence of reflections and its solution can be  automatically thresholded to obtain an optimal discrete solution. Our method solves both the continuous and discrete formulations of the problem, and therefore has applications in learning, inference, and reconstruction. In our experiments, we show the benefits of our new algorithms for two image segmentation tasks.
Sparse nonnegative deconvolution for compressive calcium imaging: algorithms and phase transitions,We propose a compressed sensing (CS) calcium imaging framework for monitoring large neuronal populations, where we image randomized projections of the spatial calcium concentration at each timestep, instead of measuring the concentration at individual locations. We develop scalable nonnegative deconvolution methods for extracting the neuronal spike time series from such observations. We also address the problem of demixing the spatial locations of the neurons using rank-penalized matrix factorization methods. By exploiting the sparsity of neural spiking we demonstrate that the number of measurements needed per timestep is significantly smaller than the total number of neurons, a result that can potentially enable imaging of larger populations at considerably faster rates compared to traditional raster-scanning techniques. Unlike traditional CS setups, our problem involves a block-diagonal sensing matrix and a non-orthogonal sparse basis that spans multiple timesteps. We study the effect of these distinctive features in a noiseless setup using recent results relating conic geometry to CS. We provide tight approximations to the number of measurements needed for perfect deconvolution for certain classes of spiking processes, and show that this number displays a "phase transition," similar to phenomena observed in more standard CS settings; however, in this case the required measurement rate depends not just on the mean sparsity level but also on other details of the underlying spiking process.
When are Overcomplete Topic Models Identifiable? Uniqueness of Tensor Tucker Decompositions with Structured Sparsity,Overcomplete latent representations have been very popular for unsupervised feature learning in recent years. In this paper, we specify which overcomplete models can be identified given observable moments of a certain order. We consider   probabilistic admixture or topic models  in the overcomplete regime, where the number of latent topics can greatly exceed the size of the observed word vocabulary. While   general  overcomplete topic models are not   identifiable, we establish {\em generic} identifiability under  a  constraint, referred to as  {\em topic persistence}. Our sufficient conditions for identifiability involve a novel set of "higher order'' expansion conditions on   the {\em topic-word matrix} or the {\em population structure}   of the   model. This set of higher-order expansion conditions allow for overcomplete models, and require  the existence of a perfect  matching from latent topics to higher order observed words. We establish that random structured topic models are identifiable w.h.p. in the overcomplete regime. Our identifiability results allow for   general (non-degenerate) distributions for modeling the topic proportions, and thus, we can handle arbitrarily correlated topics in our framework.  Our identifiability results imply uniqueness of a class of tensor decompositions with structured sparsity which is contained in the class of {\em Tucker} decompositions, but is more general than the {\em Candecomp/Parafac} (CP)   decomposition.
Blind Calibration in Compressed Sensing using Message Passing Algorithms,Compressed sensing (CS) is a concept that allows to acquire compressible signals with a small number of measurements. As such, it is very attractive for hardware implementations. Therefore, correct calibration of the hardware is a central issue. In this paper we study the so-called blind calibration, i.e. when the training signals that are available to perform the calibration are sparse but unknown. We extend the approximate message passing (AMP) algorithm used in CS to the case of blind calibration. In the calibration-AMP, both the gains on the sensors and the elements of the signals are treated as unknowns. Our algorithm is also applicable to settings in which the sensors distort the measurements in other ways than multiplication by a gain, unlike previously suggested blind calibration algorithms based on convex relaxations. We study numerically the phase diagram of the blind calibration problem, and show that even in cases where convex relaxation is possible, our algorithm requires a smaller number of measurements and/or signals in order to perform well.
Scalable Inference for Logistic-Normal Topic Models,Logistic-normal topic models can effectively discover correlation structures among latent topics. However, their inference remains a challenge because of the non-conjugacy between the logistic-normal prior and multinomial topic mixing proportions. Existing algorithms either make restricting mean-field assumptions or are not scalable to large-scale applications. This paper presents a partially collapsed Gibbs sampling algorithm that approaches the provably correct distribution by exploring the ideas of data augmentation. To improve time efficiency, we further present a parallel implementation that can deal with large-scale applications and learn the correlation structures of thousands of topics from millions of documents. Extensive empirical results demonstrate the promise.
A Gang of Bandits,Multi-armed bandit problems are receiving a great deal of attention because they adequately formalize the exploration-exploitation trade-offs arising in several industrially relevant applications, such as online advertisement and, more generally, recommendation systems.  In many cases, however, these applications have a strong social component, whose integration in the bandit algorithm could lead to a dramatic performance increase. For instance, we may want to serve content to a group of users by taking advantage of an underlying network of social relationships among them. In this paper, we introduce novel algorithmic approaches to the solution of such networked bandit problems. More specifically, we design and analyze a global strategy which allocates a bandit algorithm to each network node (user) and allows it to share signals (contexts and payoffs) with the neghboring nodes. We then derive two more scalable variants of this strategy based on different ways of clustering the graph nodes. We experimentally compare the algorithm and its variants to state-of-the-art methods for contextual bandits that do not use the relational information. Our experiments, carried out on synthetic and real-world datasets, show a marked increase in prediction performance obtained by exploiting the network structure.
Online Learning in Markov Decision Processes with Adversarially Chosen Transition Probability Distributions,We study the problem of online learning Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) when both the transition distributions and loss functions are chosen by an adversary. We present an algorithm that, under a mixing assumption, achieves $O(\sqrt{T\log|\Pi|}+\log|\Pi|)$ regret with respect to a comparison set of policies $\Pi$.  The regret is independent of the size of the state and action spaces. When expectations over sample paths can be computed efficiently and the comparison set $\Pi$ has polynomial size, this algorithm is efficient.  We also consider the episodic adversarial online shortest path problem.  Here, in each episode an adversary may choose a weighted directed acyclic graph with an identified start and finish node. The goal of the learning algorithm is to choose a path that minimizes the loss while traversing from the start to finish node. At the end of each episode the loss function (given by weights on the edges) is revealed to the learning algorithm. The goal is to minimize regret with respect to a fixed policy for selecting paths. This problem is a special case of the online MDP problem. For randomly chosen graphs and adversarial losses, this problem can be efficiently solved. We show that it also can be efficiently solved for adversarial graphs and randomly chosen losses.  When both graphs and losses are adversarially chosen, we present an efficient algorithm whose regret scales linearly with the number of distinct graphs.  Finally, we show that designing efficient algorithms for the adversarial online shortest path problem (and hence for the adversarial MDP problem) is as hard as learning parity with noise, a notoriously difficult problem that has been used to design efficient cryptographic schemes.
An Approximate, Efficient LP Solver for LP Rounding,Many problems in machine learning can be solved by rounding the solution of an appropriate linear program. We propose a scheme that is based on a quadratic program relaxation which allows us to use parallel stochastic-coordinate-descent to approximately solve large linear programs efficiently. Our software is an order of magnitude faster than Cplex (a commercial linear programming solver) and yields similar solution quality. Our results include a novel perturbation analysis of a quadratic-penalty formulation of linear programming and a convergence result, which we use to derive running time and quality guarantees.
Robust learning of low-dimensional dynamics from large neural ensembles,Recordings from large populations of neurons make it possible to search for hypothesized low-dimensional dynamics. Finding these dynamics requires models that take into account biophysical constraints and can be fit efficiently and robustly. Here, we present an approach to dimensionality reduction for neural data that is convex, does not make strong assumptions about dynamics, does not require averaging over many trials and is extensible to more complex statistical models that combine local and global influences. The results can be combined with spectral methods to learn dynamical systems models. The basic method can be seen as an extension of PCA to the exponential family using nuclear norm minimization. We evaluate the effectiveness of this method using an exact decomposition of the Bregman divergence that is analogous to variance explained for PCA. We show on model data that the parameters of latent linear dynamical systems can be recovered, and that even if the dynamics are not stationary we can still recover the true latent subspace. We also demonstrate an extension of nuclear norm minimization that can separate sparse local connections from global latent dynamics. Finally, we demonstrate improved prediction on real neural data from monkey motor cortex compared to fitting linear dynamical models without nuclear norm smoothing.
Speedup Matrix Completion with Side Information: Application to Multi-Label Learning,In standard matrix completion theory, it is required to have at least $O(n\ln^2 n)$ observed entries to perfectly recover a low-rank matrix $M$ of size $n\times n$, leading to a large number of observations when $n$ is large. In many real tasks, side information in addition to the observed entries is often available. In this work, we develop a novel theory of matrix completion that explicitly explore the side information to reduce the requirement on the number of observed entries. We show that, under appropriate conditions, with the assistance of side information matrices, the number of observed entries needed for a perfect recovery of matrix $M$ can be dramatically reduced to $O(\ln n)$. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach for matrix completion in transductive incomplete multi-label learning.
Buy-in-Bulk Active Learning,In many practical applications of active learning, it is more cost-effective to request labels in large batches, rather than one-at-a-time. This is because the cost of labeling a large batch of examples at once is often sublinear in the number of examples in the batch. In this work, we study the label complexity of active learning algorithms that request labels in a given number of batches, as well as the tradeoff between the total number of queries and the number of rounds allowed. We additionally study the total cost sufficient for learning, for an abstract notion of the cost of requesting the labels of a given number of examples at once. In particular, we find that for sublinear cost functions, it is often desirable to request labels in large batches (i.e., buying in bulk); although this may increase the total number of labels requested, it reduces the total cost required for learning.
Optimal Neural Population Codes for High-dimensional Stimulus Variables,How does neural population process sensory information? Optimal coding theories assume that neural tuning curves are adapted to the prior distribution of the stimulus variable. Most of the previous work has discussed optimal solutions for only one-dimensional stimulus variables. Here, we expand some of these ideas and present new solutions that define optimal tuning curves for high-dimensional stimulus variables. We consider solutions for a minimal case where the number of neurons in the population is equal to the number of stimulus dimensions (diffeomorphic). In the case of two-dimensional stimulus variables, we analytically derive optimal solutions for different optimal criteria such as minimal L2 reconstruction error or maximal mutual information. For higher dimensional case, the learning rule to improve the population code is provided.
Better Approximation and Faster Algorithm Using the Proximal Average,It is a common practice to approximate "complicated'' functions with more friendly ones. In large-scale machine learning applications, nonsmooth losses/regularizers that entail great computational challenges are usually approximated by smooth functions. We re-examine this powerful methodology and point out a nonsmooth approximation which simply pretends  the linearity of the proximal map. The new approximation is justified using a recent convex analysis tool---proximal average, and yields a novel proximal gradient algorithm that is strictly better than the one based on smoothing, without incurring any extra overhead. Numerical experiments conducted on two important applications, overlapping group lasso and graph-guided fused lasso, corroborate the theoretical claims.
Convex Relaxations for Permutation Problems,Seriation seeks to reconstruct a linear order between variables using unsorted similarity information. It has direct applications in archeology and shotgun gene sequencing for example. We prove the equivalence between the seriation and the combinatorial 2-sum problem (a quadratic minimization problem over permutations) over a class of similarity matrices. The seriation problem can be solved exactly by a spectral algorithm in the noiseless case and we produce a convex relaxation for the 2-sum problem to improve the robustness of solutions in a noisy setting.  This relaxation also allows us to impose additional structural constraints on the solution, to solve semi-supervised seriation problems. We present numerical experiments on archeological data, Markov chains and gene sequences.
Similarity Component Analysis,Measuring similarity is crucial to many learning tasks. It is also a richer and broader notion than what most metric learning algorithms can model. For example, similarity can arise from the process of aggregating the decisions of multiple latent components, where each latent component compares data in its own way by focusing on a different subset of features. In this paper, we propose Similarity Component Analysis (SCA), a probabilistic graphical model that discovers those latent components from data. In SCA, a latent component generates a local similarity value, computed with its own metric, independently of other components. The final similarity measure is then obtained by combining the local similarity values with a (noisy-)OR gate. We derive an EM-based algorithm for fitting the model parameters with similarity-annotated data from pairwise comparisons. We validate the SCA model on synthetic datasets where SCA discovers the ground-truth about the latent components. We also apply SCA to a multiway classification task and a link prediction task. For both tasks, SCA attains significantly better prediction accuracies than competing methods. Moreover, we show how SCA can be instrumental in exploratory analysis of data, where we gain insights about the data by examining patterns hidden in its latent components' local similarity values.
Estimating LASSO Risk and Noise Level,We study the fundamental problems of variance and risk estimation in high dimensional statistical modeling. In particular, we consider the problem of learning a coefficient vector $\theta_0\in R^p$ from noisy linear observation $y=X\theta_0+w\in R^n$ and the popular estimation procedure of solving an $\ell_1$-penalized least squares objective known as the LASSO or Basis Pursuit DeNoising (BPDN). In this context, we develop new estimators for the $\ell_2$ estimation risk $\|\hat{\theta}-\theta_0\|_2$ and the variance of the noise. These can be used to select the regularization parameter optimally. Our approach combines Stein unbiased risk estimate (Stein'81) and recent results of (Bayati and Montanari'11-12) on the analysis of approximate message passing and risk of LASSO.  We establish high-dimensional consistency of our estimators for sequences of matrices $X$ of increasing dimensions, with independent Gaussian entries. We establish validity for a broader class of Gaussian designs, conditional on the validity of a certain conjecture from statistical physics.  Our approach is the first that provides an asymptotically consistent risk estimator. In addition, we demonstrate through simulation that our variance estimation outperforms several existing methods in the literature.
Learning and using language via recursive pragmatic reasoning about other agents,Language users are remarkably good at making inferences about speakers' intentions in context, and children learning their native language also display substantial skill in acquiring the meanings of unknown words. These two cases are deeply related: Language users invent new terms in conversation, and language learners learn the literal meanings of words based on their pragmatic inferences about how those words are used.  While pragmatic inference and word learning have both been independently characterized in probabilistic terms, no current work unifies these two. We describe a model in which language learners assume that they jointly approximate a shared, external lexicon and reason recursively about the goals of others in using this lexicon. This model captures phenomena in word learning and pragmatic inference; it additionally leads to insights about the emergence of communicative systems in conversation and the mechanisms by which pragmatic inferences become incorporated into word meanings.
Online learning in episodic Markovian decision processes by relative entropy policy search,We study the problem of online learning in finite episodic Markov decision processes where the loss function is allowed to change between episodes. The natural performance measure in this learning problem is the regret defined as the difference between the total loss of the best stationary policy and the total loss suffered by the learner. We assume that the learner is given access to a finite action space $\A$ and the state space $\X$ has a layered structure with $L$ layers, so that state transitions are only possible between consecutive layers. We describe a variant of the recently proposed Relative Entropy Policy Search algorithm and show that its regret after $T$ episodes is $2\sqrt{L\nX\nA T\log(\nX\nA/L)}$ in the bandit setting and $2L\sqrt{T\log(\nX\nA/L)}$ in the full information setting. These guarantees largely improve previously known results under much milder assumptions and cannot be significantly improved under general assumptions.
Manifold-based Similarity Adaptation for Label Propagation,Label propagation is one of the state-of-the-art methods for semi-supervised learning, which estimates labels by propagating label information through a graph. Label propagation assumes that data points (nodes) connected in a graph should have similar labels. Consequently, the label estimation heavily depends on edge weights in a graph which represent similarity of each node pair. We propose a method for a graph to capture the manifold structure of input features using edge weights parameterized by a similarity function. In this approach, edge weights represent both similarity and local reconstruction weight simultaneously, both being reasonable for label propagation. For further justification, we provide analytical considerations including an interpretation as a cross-validation of a propagation model in the feature space, and an error analysis based on a low dimensional manifold model. Experimental results demonstrated the effectiveness of our approach both in synthetic and real datasets.
Memoized Online Variational Inference for Dirichlet Process Mixture Models,Variational inference algorithms provide the most effective framework for large-scale training  of Bayesian nonparametric models. Stochastic online approaches are promising, but are sensitive to the chosen learning rate and often converge to poor local optima.  We present a new algorithm, memoized online variational inference, which scales to very large (yet finite) datasets while avoiding the complexities of stochastic gradient.  Our algorithm maintains finite-dimensional sufficient statistics from batches of the full dataset, requiring some additional memory but still scaling to millions of examples.  Exploiting nested families of variational bounds for infinite nonparametric models, we develop principled birth and merge moves allowing non-local optimization.  Births adaptively add components to the model to escape local optima, while merges remove redundancy and improve speed.  Using Dirichlet process mixture models for image clustering and denoising, we demonstrate major improvements in robustness and accuracy.
Approximate Gaussian process inference for the drift function in stochastic differential equations,We introduce a nonparametric approach for estimating drift functions in systems of stochastic differential equations from incomplete observations of the state vector. Using a Gaussian process prior over the drift as a function of the state vector, we develop an approximate EM algorithm to deal with the unobserved, latent dynamics between observations. The posterior over states is approximated by a piecewise linearized process and the MAP estimation of the drift is facilitated by a sparse Gaussian process regression.
Learning to Prune in Metric and Non-Metric Spaces,To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first successful attempt to employ a VP-tree with the learned pruning algorithm in non-metric spaces. We focus on approximate nearest neighbor (NN) retrieval methods and experiment with two simple yet effective learning-to-prune approaches: density estimation through sampling and stretching of the triangle inequality. Both methods are evaluated using data sets with a metric (the Euclidean) and a non-metric (the KL-divergence) distance functions. The VP-tree with a learned pruner is compared against the recently proposed state-of-the art approaches: the bbtree, the multi-probe locality sensitive hashing (LSH), and permutation methods. Our method was competitive against state-of-the art methods and outperformed them in most cases by a wide margin. Our experiments also showed that the bbtree (an exact search method) was typically slower than exhaustive searching, if the KL-divergence was evaluated efficiently (through precomputing logarithms at index time). Conditions on spaces where the VP-tree is applicable are discussed.
Probabilistic Low-Rank Matrix Completion with Adaptive Spectral Regularization Algorithms,We propose a novel class of algorithms for low rank matrix completion. Our approach builds on novel penalty functions on the singular values of the low rank matrix. By exploiting a mixture model representation of this penalty, we show that a suitably chosen set of latent variables enables to derive an Expectation-Maximization algorithm to obtain a Maximum A Posteriori estimate of the completed low rank matrix. The resulting algorithm is an iterative soft-thresholded algorithm which iteratively adapts the shrinkage coefficients associated to the singular values. The algorithm is simple to implement and can scale to large matrices. We provide numerical comparisons between our approach and recent alternatives showing the interest of the proposed approach for low rank matrix completion.
Polar Operators for Structured Sparse Estimation,Structured sparse estimation has become an important technique in many areas of data analysis. Unfortunately, these estimators normally create computational difficulties that entail sophisticated algorithms. Our first contribution is to uncover a rich class of structured sparse regularizers whose polar operator can be evaluated efficiently. With such an operator, a simple conditional gradient method can then be developed that, when combined with smoothing and local optimization, significantly reduces training time vs. the state of the art. We also demonstrate a new reduction of polar to proximal maps that enables more efficient latent fused lasso.
Generalized Method-of-Moments for Rank Aggregation,In this paper we propose a class of efficient Generalized Method-of-Moments(GMM) algorithms for computing parameters of the Plackett-Luce model, where the data consists of full rankings over alternatives. Our technique is based on breaking the full rankings into pairwise comparisons, and then computing parameters that satisfy a set of generalized moment conditions. We identify conditions for the output of GMM to be unique, and identify a general class of consistent and inconsistent breakings. We then show by theory and experiments that our algorithms run significantly faster than the classical Minorize-Maximization (MM) algorithm, while achieving competitive statistical efficiency.
Mixed Optimization for Smooth Functions,It is well known that the optimal convergence rate for stochastic optimization of smooth functions is $[O(1/\sqrt{T})]$, which is same as stochastic optimization of Lipschitz continuous convex functions. This is in contrast to optimizing smooth functions using full gradients, which yields a convergence rate of $[O(1/T^2)]$. In this work, we consider a new setup for optimizing smooth functions, termed as {\bf Mixed Optimization}, which allows to access  both a stochastic oracle  and a full gradient oracle. Our goal is to significantly improve the convergence rate of stochastic optimization of smooth functions by having an additional small number of accesses to the full gradient oracle. We show that, with an $[O(\ln T)]$ calls to the full gradient oracle  and an $O(T)$ calls to the stochastic oracle, the proposed mixed optimization algorithm is able to achieve an optimization error of $[O(1/T)]$.
A Stability-based Validation Procedure for Differentially Private Machine Learning,Differential privacy is a cryptographically motivated definition of privacy which has gained considerable attention in the algorithms, machine-learning and data-mining communities. While there has been an explosion of work on differentially private machine learning algorithms, a major barrier to achieving end-to-end differential privacy in practical machine learning applications is the lack of an effective procedure for differentially private parameter tuning, or, determining the parameter value, such as a bin size in a histogram, or a regularization parameter, that is suitable for a particular application.   In this paper, we introduce a generic validation procedure for differentially private machine learning algorithms that apply when a certain stability condition holds on the training algorithm and the validation performance metric. The training data size and the privacy budget used for training in our procedure is independent of the number of parameter values searched over. We apply our generic procedure to two fundamental tasks in statistics and machine-learning -- training a regularized linear classifier and building a histogram density estimator that result in end-to-end differentially private solutions for these problems.
Accelerated Mini-Batch Stochastic Dual Coordinate Ascent,Stochastic dual coordinate ascent (SDCA) is an effective technique for solving regularized loss minimization problems in machine learning. This paper considers an extension of SDCA under the mini-batch setting that is often used in practice. Our main contribution is to introduce an accelerated mini-batch version of SDCA and prove a fast convergence rate for this method. We discuss an implementation of our method over a parallel computing system, and compare the results to both the vanilla stochastic dual coordinate ascent and to the accelerated deterministic gradient descent method of Nesterov [2007].
Learning Chordal Markov Networks by Constraint Satisfaction,We investigate the problem of learning the structure of a Markov network from data. It is shown that the structure of such networks can be described in terms of constraints which enables the use of existing solver technology with optimization capabilities to compute optimal networks starting from initial scores computed from the data. To achieve efficient encodings, we develop a novel characterization of Markov network structure using a balancing condition on the separators between cliques forming the network. The resulting translations into propositional satisfiability and its extensions such as maximum satisfiability, satisfiability modulo theories, and answer set programming, enable us to prove the optimality of networks which have been previously found by stochastic search.
Solving the multi-way matching problem by permutation synchronization,The problem of matching not just two, but m different sets of objects to each other arises in a variety of contexts, including finding the correspondence between feature points across multiple images in computer vision. At present it is usually solved by matching the sets pairwise, in series. In contrast, we propose a new method, permutation synchronization, which finds all the matchings jointly, in one shot, via a relaxation to eigenvector decomposition. The resulting algorithm is both computationally efficient, and, as we demonstrate with theoretical arguments as well as experimental results, much more stable to noise than previous methods.
Cluster Trees on Manifolds,We investigate the problem of estimating the cluster tree for a density $f$ supported on or near a smooth $d$-dimensional manifold $M$ isometrically embedded in $\mathbb{R}^D$. We study a $k$-nearest neighbor based algorithm recently proposed by Chaudhuri and Dasgupta. Under mild assumptions on $f$ and $M$, we obtain rates of convergence that depend on $d$ only but not on the ambient dimension $D$. We also provide a sample complexity lower bound for a natural class of clustering algorithms that use $D$-dimensional neighborhoods.
Minimax Theory for High-dimensional Gaussian Mixtures with Sparse Mean Separation,While several papers have investigated computationally and statistically efficient methods for learning Gaussian mixtures, precise minimax bounds for their statistical performance as well as fundamental limits in high-dimensional settings are not well-understood. In this paper, we provide precise information theoretic bounds on the clustering accuracy and sample complexity of learning a mixture of two isotropic Gaussians in high dimensions under small mean separation. If there is a sparse subset of relevant dimensions that determine the mean separation, then the sample complexity only depends on the number of relevant dimensions and mean separation, and can be achieved by a simple computationally efficient procedure. Our results provide the first step of a theoretical basis for recent methods that combine feature selection and clustering.
Latent Structured Active Learning,In this paper we present active learning algorithms in the context of structured prediction problems. To reduce the amount of labeling necessary to learn good models, our algorithms only label subsets of the output. To this end, we query examples using entropies of local marginals, which are a good surrogate for uncertainty. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in the task of 3D layout prediction from single images, and show that good models are learned when labeling only a handful of random variables. In particular, the same performance as using the full training set can be obtained while only labeling ~10\% of the random variables.
Low-Rank Matrix and Tensor Completion via Adaptive Sampling,We study low rank matrix and tensor completion and propose novel algorithms that employ adaptive sampling schemes to obtain strong performance guarantees for these problems. Our algorithms exploit adaptivity to identify entries that are highly informative for identifying the column space of the matrix (tensor) and consequently, our results hold even when the row space is highly coherent, in contrast with previous analysis of matrix completion. In the absence of noise, we show that one can exactly recover a $n \times n$ matrix of rank $r$ using $O(r^2 n \log(r))$ observations, which is better than the best known bound under random sampling. We also show that one can recover an order $T$ tensor using $O(r^{2(T-1)}T^2 n \log(r))$. For noisy recovery, we show that one can consistently estimate a low rank matrix corrupted with noise using $O(nr \textrm{polylog}(n))$ observations. We complement our study with simulations that verify our theoretical guarantees and demonstrate the scalability of our algorithms.
A Scalable Approach to Probabilistic Latent Space Inference of Large-Scale Networks,We propose a scalable approach for making inference about latent spaces of large networks. With a succinct representation of networks as a bag of triangular motifs, a parsimonious statistical model, and an efficient stochastic variational inference algorithm, we are able to analyze real networks with over a million vertices and hundreds of latent roles on a single machine in a matter of hours, a setting that is out of reach for many existing methods. When compared to the state-of-the-art probabilistic approaches, our method is several orders of magnitude faster, with competitive or improved accuracy for latent space recovery and link prediction.
Learning Prices for Repeated Auctions with Strategic Buyers,Inspired by real-time ad exchanges for online display advertising, we consider the problem of inferring a buyer's value distribution for a good when the buyer is repeatedly interacting with a seller through a posted-price mechanism.  We model the buyer as a strategic agent, whose goal is to maximize her long-term surplus, and we are interested in mechanisms that maximize the seller's long-term revenue. We present seller algorithms that are no-regret when the buyer discounts her future surplus --- i.e. the buyer prefers showing advertisements to users sooner rather than later. We also give a lower bound on regret that increases as the buyer's discounting weakens and shows, in particular, that any seller algorithm will suffer linear regret if there is no discounting.
Convex Tensor Decomposition via Structured Schatten Norm Regularization,We propose a new class of structured Schatten norms for tensors that includes two recently  proposed norms ("overlapped'' and "latent'') for convex-optimization-based  tensor decomposition. Based on the properties of the structured Schatten norms, we mathematically analyze the performance of "latent'' approach for tensor decomposition, which was empirically found to perform better than the "overlapped'' approach in some settings. We show theoretically that this is indeed the case. In particular, when the unknown true tensor is low-rank in a specific mode, this approach performs as well as knowing the mode with the smallest rank. Along the way, we show a novel duality result for structures Schatten norms, which is also interesting in the general context of structured sparsity. We confirm through  numerical simulations that our theory can precisely predict the scaling behaviour of the mean squared error.
Aggregating Optimistic Planning Trees for Solving Markov Decision Processes,This paper addresses the problem of online planning in Markov Decision Processes using only a generative model. We propose a new algorithm which is based on the construction of a forest of single successor state planning trees. For every explored state-action, such a tree contains exactly one successor state, drawn from the generative model. The trees are built using a planning algorithm which follows the optimism in the face of uncertainty principle, in assuming the most favorable outcome in the absence of further information. In the decision making step of the algorithm, the individual trees are combined. We discuss the approach, prove that our proposed algorithm is consistent, and empirically show that it performs better than a related algorithm which additionally assumes the knowledge of all transition distributions.
EDML for Learning Parameters in Directed and Undirected Graphical Models,EDML is a recently proposed algorithm for learning parameters in Bayesian networks.  It was originally derived in terms of approximate inference on a meta-network, which underlies the Bayesian approach to parameter estimation.  While this initial derivation helped discover EDML in the first place and provided a concrete context for identifying some of its properties (e.g., in contrast to EM), the formal setting was somewhat tedious in the number of concepts it drew on.  In this paper, we propose a greatly simplified perspective on EDML, which casts it as a general approach to continuous optimization. The new perspective has several advantages. First, it makes immediate some results that were non-trivial to prove initially. Second, it facilitates the design of EDML algorithms for new graphical models, leading to a new algorithm for learning parameters in Markov networks.  We derive this algorithm in this paper, and show, empirically, that it can sometimes learn better estimates from complete data, several times faster than commonly used optimization methods, such as conjugate gradient and L-BFGS.
Linear Convergence with Condition Number Independent Access of Full Gradients,For smooth and strongly convex optimization, the optimal iteration complexity of the gradient-based algorithm is $O(\sqrt{\kappa}\log 1/\epsilon)$, where $\kappa$ is the conditional number. In the case that the optimization problem is ill-conditioned, we need to evaluate a larger number of full gradients, which could be computationally expensive. In this paper, we propose to reduce the number of full gradient required by allowing the algorithm to access the stochastic gradients of the objective function. To this end, we present a novel algorithm named Epoch Mixed Gradient Descent (EMGD) that is able to utilize two kinds of gradients.  A distinctive step in EMGD is the mixed gradient descent, where we use an combination of the gradient and the stochastic gradient to update the intermediate solutions. By performing a fixed number of mixed gradient descents, we are able to improve the sub-optimality of the solution by a constant factor, and thus achieve a linear convergence rate. Theoretical analysis shows that EMGD is able to find an $\epsilon$-optimal solution by computing $O(\log 1/\epsilon)$ full gradients and $O(\kappa^2\log 1/\epsilon)$ stochastic gradients.
Accelerating Stochastic Gradient Descent using Predictive Variance Reduction,Stochastic gradient descent is popular for large scale optimization but has slow convergence asymptotically due to the inherent variance. To remedy this problem, we introduce an explicit variance reduction method for stochastic gradient descent which we call stochastic variance reduced gradient (SVRG). For smooth and strongly convex functions, we  prove that this method enjoys the same fast convergence rate as those of stochastic dual coordinate ascent (SDCA) and Stochastic Average Gradient (SAG).  However, our analysis is significantly simpler and more intuitive. Moreover, unlike SDCA or SAG, our method does not require the storage of gradients, and thus is more easily applicable to complex problems such as some structured prediction problems and neural network learning.
Multiscale Dictionary Learning for Estimating Conditional Distributions,Nonparametric estimation of the conditional distribution of a response given high-dimensional features is a challenging problem.  It is important to allow not only the mean but also the variance and shape of the response density to change flexibly with features, which are massive-dimensional.  We propose a multiscale dictionary learning model, which expresses the conditional response density as a convex combination of dictionary densities, with the densities used and their weights dependent on the path through a tree decomposition of the feature space.  A fast graph partitioning algorithm is applied to obtain the tree decomposition, with Bayesian methods then used to adaptively prune and average over different sub-trees in a soft probabilistic manner.  The algorithm scales efficiently to approximately one million features.  State of the art predictive performance is demonstrated for toy examples and two neuroscience applications including up to a million features.
Data-driven Distributionally Robust Polynomial Optimization,We consider robust optimization for polynomial optimization problems where the uncertainty set is a set of candidate probability density functions. This set is a ball around a density function estimated from data samples, i.e., it is data-driven and random.  Polynomial optimization problems are inherently hard due to nonconvex objectives and constraints.  However, we show that by employing polynomial and histogram density estimates, we can introduce robustness with respect to distributional uncertainty sets without making the problem harder.  We show that the solution to the distributionally robust problem is the limit of a sequence of tractable semidefinite programming relaxations.  We also give finite-sample consistency guarantees for the data-driven uncertainty  sets.  Finally, we apply our model and solution method in a water network problem.
Contrastive Learning Using Spectral Methods,In many natural settings, the analysis goal is not to characterize a single data set in isolation, but rather to understand the difference between one set of observations and another. For example, given a background corpus of news articles together with writings of a particular author, one may want a topic model that explains word patterns and themes specific to the author. Another example comes from genomics, in which biological signals may be collected from different regions of a genome, and one wants a model that captures the differential statistics observed in these regions. This paper formalizes this notion of contrastive learning for  mixture models, and develops spectral algorithms for inferring mixture components specific to a foreground data set when contrasted with a background data set. The method builds on recent moment-based estimators and tensor decompositions for latent variable models, and has the intuitive feature of using background data statistics to appropriately modify moments estimated from foreground data. A key advantage of the method is that the background data need only be coarsely modeled, which is important when the background is too complex, noisy, or not of interest. The method is demonstrated on applications in contrastive topic modeling and genomic sequence analysis.
Model Selection for High-Dimensional Regression under the Generalized Irrepresentability Condition,In the high-dimensional regression model a response variable is linearly related to $p$ covariates,  but the sample size $n$ is smaller than $p$. We assume that only a small subset of covariates is `active'  (i.e., the corresponding coefficients are non-zero), and consider the model-selection problem of identifying  the active covariates.  A popular approach is to estimate the regression coefficients through the Lasso ($\ell_1$-regularized least squares).  This is known to correctly identify the active set only if the irrelevant covariates are roughly orthogonal to the relevant ones, as quantified through the so called `irrepresentability' condition. In this paper we study the `Gauss-Lasso' selector, a simple two-stage method that first solves the Lasso, and then performs ordinary least squares restricted to the Lasso active set.   We formulate `generalized irrepresentability condition' (GIC), an assumption that is substantially weaker than  irrepresentability. We prove that, under GIC, the Gauss-Lasso correctly recovers the active set.
On the Linear Convergence of the Proximal Gradient Method for Trace Norm Regularization,Motivated by various applications in machine learning, the problem of minimizing a convex smooth loss function with trace norm regularization has received much attention lately.  Currently, a popular method for solving such problem is the proximal gradient method (PGM), which is known to have a sublinear rate of convergence.  In this paper, we show that for a large class of loss functions, the convergence rate of the PGM is in fact linear.  Our result is established without any strong convexity assumption on the loss function.  A key ingredient in our proof is a new Lipschitzian error bound for the aforementioned trace norm-regularized problem, which may be of independent interest.
Generalized Random Utility Models with Multiple Types,We propose a model for demand estimation in multi-agent, differentiated product settings and present an estimation algorithm that uses reversible jump MCMC techniques to classify agents' types. Our model extends the popular setup in Berry, Levinsohn and Pakes (1995) to allow for the data-driven classification of agents' types using agent-level data. We focus on applications involving data on agents' ranking over alternatives, and present theoretical conditions that establish the identifiability of the model and uni-modality of the likelihood/posterior. Results on both real and simulated data provide support for the scalability of our approach.
A message-passing algorithm for multi-agent trajectory planning,We describe a novel approach for computing collision-free \emph{global} trajectories for $p$ agents with specified initial and final configurations, based on an improved version of the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) algorithm. Compared with existing methods, our approach is naturally parallelizable and allows for incorporating different cost functionals with only minor adjustments. We apply our method to classical challenging instances and observe that its computational requirements scale well with $p$ for several cost functionals. We also show that a specialization of our algorithm can be used for {\em local} motion planning by solving the problem of joint optimization in velocity space.
Curvature and Optimal Algorithms for Learning and Minimizing Submodular Functions,We investigate three related and important problems connected to machine learning, namely approximating a submodular function everywhere, learning a submodular function (in a PAC like setting [26]), and constrained minimization of submodular functions. In all three problems, we provide improved bounds which depend on the curvature of a submodular function and improve on the previously known best results for these problems [9, 3, 7, 25] when the function is not too curved  a property which is true of many real-world submodular functions. In the former two problems, we obtain these bounds through a generic black-box transformation (which can potentially work for any algorithm), while in the case of submodular minimization, we propose a framework of algorithms which depend on choosing an appropriate surrogate for the submodular function. In all these cases, we provide almost matching lower bounds. While improved curvature-dependent bounds were shown for monotone submodular maximization [4, 27], the existence of similar improved bounds for the aforementioned problems has been open. We resolve this question in this paper by showing that the same notion of curvature provides these improved results. Empirical experiments add further support to our claims.
Convex Two-Layer Modeling,Latent variable prediction models, such as multi-layer networks, impose auxiliary latent variables between inputs and outputs to allow automatic inference of implicit features useful for prediction.  Unfortunately, such models are difficult to train because inference over latent variables must be performed concurrently with parameter optimization---creating a highly non-convex problem.  Instead of proposing another local training method, we develop a convex relaxation of hidden-layer conditional models that admits global training.  Our approach extends current convex modeling approaches to handle two nested nonlinearities separated by a non-trivial adaptive latent layer.  The resulting methods are able to acquire two-layer models that cannot be represented by any single-layer model over the same features, while improving training quality over local heuristics.
Reasoning With Neural Tensor Networks for Knowledge Base Completion,A common problem in knowledge representation and related fields is reasoning over a large joint knowledge graph, represented as triples of a relation between two entities. The goal of this paper is to develop a more powerful neural network model suitable for inference over these relationships. Previous models suffer from weak interaction between entities or simple linear projection of the vector space. We address these problems by introducing a neural tensor network (NTN) model which allow the entities and relations to interact multiplicatively. Additionally, we observe that such knowledge base models can be further improved by representing each entity as the average of vectors for the words in the entity name, giving an additional dimension of similarity by which entities can share statistical strength. We assess the model by considering the problem of predicting additional true relations between entities given a partial knowledge base. Our model outperforms previous models and can classify unseen relationships in WordNet and FreeBase with an accuracy of 86.2% and 90.0%, respectively.
Stochastic Ratio Matching of RBMs for Sparse High-Dimensional Inputs,Sparse high-dimensional data vectors are common in many application domains where a very large number of rarely non-zero features can be devised. Unfortunately, this creates a computational bottleneck for unsupervised feature learning algorithms such as those based on auto-encoders and RBMs, because they involve a reconstruction step where the whole input vector is predicted from the current feature values. An algorithm was recently developed to successfully handle the case of auto-encoders, based on an importance sampling  scheme stochastically selecting which input elements to actually reconstruct during training for each particular example.  To generalize this idea to RBMs, we propose a stochastic ratio-matching algorithm that inherits all the computational advantages and unbiasedness of the importance sampling scheme. We show that stochastic ratio matching is a good estimator, allowing the approach to beat the state-of-the-art on two bag-of-word text classification benchmarks (20 Newsgroups and RCV1), while keeping computational cost linear in the number of non-zeros.
Robust Sparse Principal Component Regression under the High Dimensional Elliptical Model,In this paper we focus on the principal component regression and its application to high dimension non-Gaussian data. The major contributions are in two folds. First, in low dimensions and under a double asymptotic framework where both the dimension $d$ and sample size $n$ can increase, by borrowing the strength from recent development in minimax optimal principal component estimation, we first time sharply characterize the potential advantage of classical principal component regression over least square estimation under the Gaussian model. Secondly, we propose and analyze a new robust sparse principal component regression on high dimensional elliptically distributed data. The elliptical distribution is a semiparametric generalization of the Gaussian, including many well known distributions such as multivariate Gaussian, rank-deficient Gaussian, $t$, Cauchy, and logistic. It allows the random vector to be heavy tailed and have tail dependence. These extra flexibilities make it very suitable for modeling finance and biomedical imaging data. Under the elliptical model, we prove that our method can estimate the regression coefficients in the optimal parametric rate and therefore is a good alternative to the Gaussian based methods. Experiments on synthetic and real world data are conducted to illustrate the empirical usefulness of the proposed method.
Zero-Shot Learning Through Cross-Modal Transfer,This work introduces a model that can recognize objects in images even if no training data is available for the object class. The only necessary knowledge about unseen categories comes from unsupervised text corpora.  Unlike previous zero-shot learning models, which can only differentiate between unseen classes, our model can operate on a mixture of objects, simultaneously obtaining state of the art performance on classes with thousands of training images and reasonable performance on unseen classes.  This is achieved by seeing the distributions of words in texts as a semantic space for understanding what objects look like. Our deep learning model does not require any manually defined semantic or visual features for either words or images.  Images are mapped to be close to semantic word vectors corresponding to their classes, and the resulting image embeddings can be used to distinguish whether an image is of a seen or unseen class. Then, a separate recognition model can be employed for each type. We demonstrate two strategies, the first gives high accuracy on unseen classes, while the second is conservative in its prediction of novelty and keeps the seen classes' accuracy high.
Neural representation of action sequences: how far can a simple snippet-matching model take us?,The macaque Superior Temporal Sulcus (STS) is a brain area that receives and integrates inputs from both the ventral and dorsal visual processing streams (thought to specialize in form and motion processing respectively). For the processing of articulated actions, prior work has shown that even a small population of STS neurons contains sufficient information for the decoding of actor invariant to action, action invariant to actor, as well as the specific conjunction of actor and action. This paper addresses two questions. First, what are the invariance properties of individual neural representations (rather than the population representation) in STS? Second, what are the neural encoding mechanisms that can produce such individual neural representations from streams of pixel images? We find that a baseline model, one that simply computes a linear weighted sum of ventral and dorsal responses to short action snippets, produces surprisingly good fits to the neural data. Interestingly, even using inputs from a single stream, both actor-invariance and action-invariance can be produced simply by having different linear weights.
Dropout Training as Adaptive Regularization,Dropout and other feature noising schemes control overfitting by artificially corrupting the training data. For generalized linear models, dropout performs a form of adaptive regularization. Using this viewpoint, we show that the dropout regularizer is first-order equivalent to an $\LII$ regularizer applied after scaling the features by an estimate of the inverse diagonal Fisher information matrix. We also establish a connection to AdaGrad, an online learner, and find that a close relative of AdaGrad operates by repeatedly solving linear dropout-regularized problems. By casting dropout as regularization, we develop a natural semi-supervised algorithm that uses unlabeled data to create a better adaptive regularizer. We apply this idea to document classification tasks, and show that it consistently boosts the performance of dropout training, improving on state-of-the-art results on the IMDB reviews dataset.
Learning Stochastic Feedforward Neural Networks,Multilayer perceptrons (MLPs) or neural networks are popular models used for nonlinear regression and classification tasks. As regressors, MLPs model the conditional distribution of the predictor variables Y given the input variables X. However, this predictive distribution is assumed to be unimodal (e.g. Gaussian). For tasks such as structured prediction problems, the conditional distribution should be multimodal, forming one-to-many mappings. By using stochastic hidden variables rather than deterministic ones, Sigmoid Belief Nets (SBNs) can induce a rich multimodal distribution in the output space. However, previously proposed learning algorithms for SBNs are very slow and do not work well for real-valued data. In this paper, we propose a stochastic feedforward network with hidden layers having \emph{both deterministic and stochastic} variables. A new Generalized EM training procedure using importance sampling allows us to efficiently learn complicated conditional distributions. We demonstrate the superiority of our model to conditional Restricted Boltzmann Machines and Mixture Density Networks on synthetic datasets and on modeling facial expressions. Moreover, we show that latent features of our model improves classification and provide additional qualitative results on color images.
Compete to Compute,Local competition among neighboring neurons is common in biological neural networks (NNs). We apply the concept to gradient-based, backprop-trained artificial multilayer NNs. NNs with competing linear units tend to outperform those with non-competing nonlinear units, and avoid catastrophic forgetting when training sets change over time.
Restricting exchangeable nonparametric distributions,Distributions over exchangeable matrices with infinitely many columns are useful in constructing nonparametric latent variable models. However, the distribution implied by such models over the number of features exhibited by each data point may be poorly-suited for many modeling tasks. In this paper, we propose a class of exchangeable nonparametric priors obtained by restricting the domain of existing models. Such models allow us to specify the distribution over the number of features per data point, and can achieve better performance on data sets where the number of features is not well-modeled by the original distribution.
Multi-Prediction Deep Boltzmann Machines,We introduce the Multi-Prediction Deep Boltzmann Machine (MP-DBM). The MP-DBM can be seen as a single probabilistic model trained to maximize a variational approximation to the generalized pseudolikelihood, or as a family of recurrent nets that share parameters and approximately solve different inference problems. Prior methods of training DBMs either do not perform well on classification tasks or require an initial learning pass that trains the DBM greedily, one layer at a time. The MP-DBM does not require greedy layerwise pretraining, and outperforms the standard DBM at classification, classification with missing inputs, and mean field prediction tasks.
Variational Planning for Graph-based MDPs,Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) are extremely useful for modeling and solving sequential decision making problems. Graph-based MDPs provide a compact representation for MDPs with large numbers of random variables. However, the complexity of exactly solving a graph-based MDP usually grows exponentially in the number of variables, which limits their application. We present a new variational framework to describe and solve the planning problem of MDPs, and derive both exact and approximate planning algorithms. In particular, by exploiting the graph structure of graph-based MDPs, we propose a factored variational value iteration algorithm in which the value function is first approximated by the multiplication of local-scope value functions, then solved by minimizing a Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence. The KL divergence is optimized using the belief propagation algorithm, with complexity exponential in only the cluster size of the graph. Experimental comparison on different models shows that our algorithm outperforms existing approximation algorithms at finding good policies.
Phase Retrieval using Alternating Minimization,Phase retrieval problems involve solving linear equations, but with missing sign (or phase, for complex numbers) information. Over the last two decades, a popular generic empirical approach to the many variants of this problem has been one of alternating minimization; i.e. alternating between estimating the missing phase information, and the candidate solution. In this paper, we show that a simple alternating minimization algorithm geometrically converges to the solution of one such problem -- finding a vector $x$ from $y,A$, where $y = |A'x|$ and $|z|$ denotes a vector of element-wise magnitudes of $z$ -- under the assumption that $A$ is Gaussian.  Empirically, our algorithm performs similar to recently proposed convex techniques for this variant (which are based on "lifting" to a convex matrix problem) in sample complexity and robustness to noise. However, our algorithm is much more efficient and can scale to large problems. Analytically, we show geometric convergence to the solution, and sample complexity that is off by log factors from obvious lower bounds. We also establish close to optimal scaling for the case when the unknown vector is sparse. Our work represents the only known proof of alternating minimization for any variant of phase retrieval problems in the non-convex setting.
Learning to Pass Expectation Propagation Messages,Expectation Propagation (EP) is a popular approximate posterior inference algorithm that often  provides a fast and accurate alternative to sampling-based methods. However, while the EP framework in theory allows for complex non-Gaussian factors, there is still a significant practical barrier to using them within EP, because doing so requires the implementation of message update operators, which can be difficult and require hand-crafted approximations. In this work, we study the question of whether it is possible to automatically derive fast and accurate EP updates by learning a discriminative model e.g., a neural network or random forest) to map EP message inputs to EP message outputs.  We address the practical concerns that arise in the process, and we provide empirical analysis on several challenging and diverse factors, indicating that there is a space of factors where this approach appears promising.
Discriminative Transfer Learning with Tree-based Priors,This paper proposes a way of improving classification performance for classes which have very few training examples. The key idea is to discover classes which are similar and transfer knowledge among them. Our method organizes the classes into a tree hierarchy. The tree structure can be used to impose a generative prior over classification parameters. We show that these priors can be combined with discriminative models such as deep neural networks. Our method benefits from the power of discriminative training of deep neural networks, at the same time using tree-based generative priors over classification parameters. We also propose an algorithm for learning the underlying tree structure. This gives the model some flexibility to tune the tree so that the tree is pertinent to task being solved. We show that the model can transfer knowledge across related classes using fixed semantic trees. Moreover, it can learn new meaningful trees usually leading to improved performance. Our method achieves state-of-the-art classification results on the CIFAR-100 image data set and the MIR Flickr multimodal data set.
Non-Uniform Camera Shake Removal Using a Spatially-Adaptive Sparse Penalty,Typical blur from camera shake often deviates from the standard uniform convolutional assumption, in part because of problematic rotations which create greater blurring away from some unknown center point.  Consequently, successful blind deconvolution for removing shake artifacts requires the estimation of a spatially-varying or non-uniform blur operator.  Using ideas from Bayesian inference and convex analysis, this paper derives a non-uniform blind deblurring algorithm with several desirable, yet previously-unexplored attributes.  The underlying objective function includes a spatially-adaptive penalty that couples the latent sharp image, non-uniform blur operator, and noise level together.  This coupling allows the penalty to automatically adjust its shape based on the estimated degree of local blur and image structure such that regions with large blur or few prominent edges are discounted.  Remaining regions with modest blur and revealing edges therefore dominate the overall estimation process without explicitly incorporating structure-selection heuristics.  The algorithm can be implemented using an optimization strategy  that is virtually parameter free and simpler than existing methods.  Detailed theoretical analysis and empirical validation on real images serve to validate the proposed method.
On the Complexity and Approximation of Binary Evidence in Lifted Inference,Lifted inference algorithms exploit symmetries in probabilistic models to speed up inference. They show impressive performance when calculating unconditional probabilities in relational models, but often resort to non-lifted inference when computing conditional probabilities.  The reason is that conditioning on evidence breaks many of the model's symmetries, which preempts standard lifting techniques.  Recent theoretical results show, for example, that conditioning on evidence which corresponds to binary relations is #P-hard, suggesting that no lifting is to be expected in the worst case. In this paper, we balance this grim result by identifying the Boolean rank of the evidence as a key parameter for characterizing the complexity of conditioning in lifted inference.  In particular, we show that conditioning on binary evidence with bounded Boolean rank is efficient. This opens up the possibility of approximating evidence by a low-rank Boolean matrix factorization, which we investigate both theoretically and empirically.
Discovering Hidden Variables in Noisy-Or Networks using Quartet Tests,We give a polynomial-time algorithm for provably learning the structure and parameters of bipartite noisy-or Bayesian networks of binary variables where the top layer is completely hidden. Unsupervised learning of these models is a form of discrete factor analysis, enabling the discovery of hidden variables and their causal relationships with observed data. We obtain an efficient learning algorithm for a family of Bayesian networks that we call quartet-learnable, meaning that every latent variable has four children that do not have any other parents in common. We show that the existence of such a quartet allows us to uniquely identify each latent variable and to learn all parameters involving that latent variable. Underlying our algorithm are two new techniques for structure learning: a quartet test to determine whether a set of binary variables are singly coupled, and a conditional mutual information test that we use to learn parameters. We also show how to subtract already learned latent variables from the model to create new singly-coupled quartets, which substantially expands the class of structures that we can learn. Finally, we give a proof of the polynomial sample complexity of our learning algorithm, and experimentally compare it to variational EM.
Low-rank matrix reconstruction and clustering via approximate message passing,We study the problem of reconstructing low-rank matrices from their noisy observations. We formulate the problem in the Bayesian framework, which allows us to exploit structural properties of matrices in addition to low-rankedness, such as sparsity. We propose an efficient approximate message passing algorithm, derived from the belief propagation algorithm, to perform the Bayesian inference for matrix reconstruction. We have also successfully applied the proposed algorithm to a clustering problem, by formulating the problem of clustering as a low-rank matrix reconstruction problem with an additional structural property. Numerical experiments show that the proposed algorithm outperforms Lloyd's K-means algorithm.
Distributed Submodular Maximization: Identifying Representative Elements in Massive Data,Many large-scale machine learning problems (such as clustering, non-parametric learning, kernel machines, etc.) require selecting, out of a massive data set, a manageable, representative subset. Such problems can often be reduced to maximizing a submodular set function subject to cardinality constraints. Classical approaches require centralized access to the full data set; but for truly large-scale problems, rendering the data centrally is often impractical.  In this paper, we consider the problem of submodular function maximization in a distributed fashion. We develop a simple, two-stage protocol GreeDI, that is easily implemented using MapReduce style computations. We theoretically analyze our approach, and show, that under certain natural conditions, performance close to the (impractical) centralized approach can be achieved. In our extensive experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on several applications, including sparse Gaussian process inference on tens of millions of examples using Hadoop.
Stochastic Optimization of PCA with Capped MSG,We study PCA as a stochastic optimization problem and propose a novel stochastic approximation algorithm which we refer to as "Matrix Stochastic Gradient'' (MSG), as well as a practical variant, Capped MSG. We study the method both theoretically and empirically.
Machine Teaching for Bayesian Learners in the Exponential Family,What if there is a teacher who knows the learning goal and wants to design good training data for a machine learner?  We propose an optimal teaching framework aimed at learners who employ Bayesian models.  Our framework is expressed as an optimization problem over teaching examples that balance the future loss of the learner and the effort of the teacher.  This optimization problem is in general hard.  In the case where the learner employs conjugate exponential family models, we present an approximate algorithm for finding the optimal teaching set.  Our algorithm optimizes the aggregate sufficient statistics, then unpacks them into actual teaching examples.  We give several examples to illustrate our framework.
Noise-Enhanced Associative Memories,Recent advances in associative memory design through structured pattern sets and graph-based inference algorithms have allowed reliable learning and recall of an exponential number of patterns. Although these designs correct external errors in recall, they assume neurons that compute noiselessly, in contrast to the highly variable neurons in hippocampus and olfactory cortex.  Here we consider associative memories with noisy internal computations and analytically characterize performance. As long as the internal noise level is below a specified threshold, the error probability in the recall phase can be made exceedingly small. More surprisingly, we show that internal noise actually improves the performance of the recall phase. Computational experiments lend additional support to our theoretical analysis. This work suggests a functional benefit to noisy neurons in biological neuronal networks.
Recurrent networks of coupled Winner-Take-All oscillators for solving constraint satisfaction problems,We present a recurrent neuronal network, modeled as a continuous-time dynamical system, that can solve constraint satisfaction problems. Discrete variables are represented by coupled Winner-Take-All (WTA) networks, and their values are encoded in localized patterns of oscillations that are learned by the recurrent weights in these networks. Constraints over the variables are encoded in the network connectivity. Although there are no sources of noise, the network can escape from local optima in its search for solutions that satisfy all constraints by modifying the effective network connectivity through oscillations. If there is no solution that satisfies all constraints, the network state changes in a pseudo-random manner and its trajectory approximates a sampling procedure that selects a variable assignment with a probability that increases with the fraction of constraints satisfied by this assignment. External evidence, or input to the network, can force variables to specific values. When new inputs are applied, the network re-evaluates the entire set of variables in its search for the states that satisfy the maximum number of constraints, while being consistent with the external input. Our results demonstrate that the proposed network architecture can perform a deterministic search for the optimal solution to problems with non-convex cost functions. The network is inspired by canonical microcircuit models of the cortex and suggests possible dynamical mechanisms to solve constraint satisfaction problems that can be present in biological networks, or implemented in neuromorphic electronic circuits.
Learning Multi-level Sparse Representations,Bilinear approximation of a matrix is a powerful paradigm of unsupervised learning. In some applications, however, there is a natural hierarchy of concepts that ought to be reflected in the unsupervised analysis. For example, in the neurosciences image sequence considered here, there are the semantic concepts of pixel $\rightarrow$ neuron $\rightarrow$ assembly that should find their counterpart in the unsupervised analysis. Driven by this concrete problem, we propose a decomposition of the matrix of observations into a product of more than two sparse matrices, with the rank decreasing from lower to higher levels. In contrast to prior work, we allow for both hierarchical and heterarchical relations of lower-level to higher-level concepts. In addition, we learn the nature of these relations rather than imposing them. Finally, we describe an optimization scheme that allows to optimize the decomposition over all levels jointly, rather than in a greedy level-by-level fashion.   The proposed bilevel SHMF (sparse heterarchical matrix factorization) is the first formalism that allows to simultaneously interpret a calcium imaging sequence in terms of the constituent neurons, their membership in assemblies, and the time courses of both neurons and assemblies.  Experiments show that the proposed model fully recovers the structure from difficult synthetic data designed to imitate the experimental data. More importantly, bilevel SHMF yields plausible interpretations of real-world Calcium imaging data.
Scalable Influence Estimation in Continuous-Time Diffusion Networks,If a piece of information is released from a media site, can it spread, in 1 month, to a million web pages? This influence estimation problem is very challenging since both the time-sensitive nature of the problem and the issue of scalability need to be addressed simultaneously. In this paper, we propose a randomized algorithm for influence estimation in continuous-time diffusion networks. Our algorithm can estimate the influence of every node in a network with $|\Vcal|$ nodes and $|\Ecal|$ edges to an accuracy of $\epsilon$ using  $n=O(1/\epsilon^2)$ randomizations and up to logarithmic factors $O(n|\Ecal|+n|\Vcal|)$ computations. When used as a subroutine in a greedy influence maximization algorithm, our proposed method is guaranteed to find a set of nodes with an influence of at least $(1 - 1/e)\operatorname{OPT} - 2\epsilon$, where $\operatorname{OPT}$ is the optimal value. Experiments on both synthetic and real-world data show that the proposed method can easily scale up to networks of millions of nodes while significantly improves over previous state-of-the-arts in terms of the accuracy of the estimated influence and the quality of the selected nodes in maximizing the influence.
Universal models for binary spike patterns using centered Dirichlet processes,Probabilistic models for binary spike patterns provide a powerful   tool for understanding the statistical dependencies in large-scale   neural recordings.  Maximum entropy (or "maxent'') models, which   seek to explain dependencies in terms of low-order interactions   between neurons, have enjoyed remarkable success in modeling such   patterns, particularly for small groups of neurons. However, these   models are computationally intractable for large populations, and   low-order maxent models have been shown to be inadequate for some   datasets.  To overcome these limitations, we propose a family of   "universal'' models for binary spike patterns, where universality   refers to the ability to model arbitrary distributions over all   $2^m$ binary patterns.  We construct universal models using a   Dirichlet process centered on a well-behaved parametric base   measure, which naturally combines the flexibility of a histogram and   the parsimony of a parametric model.  We derive computationally   efficient inference methods using Bernoulli and cascade-logistic   base measures, which scale tractably to large populations. We also   establish a condition for equivalence between the cascade-logistic   and the 2nd-order maxent or "Ising'' model, making cascade-logistic   a reasonable choice for base measure in a universal model. We illustrate the performance of these models using neural data.
Perfect Associative Learning with Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity,Recent extensions of the Perceptron, as e.g. the Tempotron, suggest that this theoretical concept is highly relevant also for understanding networks of spiking neurons in the brain. It is not known, however, how the computational power of the Perceptron and of its variants might be accomplished by the plasticity mechanisms of real synapses. Here we prove that spike-timing-dependent plasticity having an anti-Hebbian form for excitatory synapses as well as a spike-timing-dependent plasticity of Hebbian shape for inhibitory synapses are sufficient for realizing the original Perceptron Learning Rule if the respective plasticity mechanisms act in concert with the hyperpolarisation of the post-synaptic neurons. We also show that with these simple yet biologically realistic dynamics Tempotrons are efficiently learned. The proposed mechanism might underly the acquisition of mappings of spatio-temporal activity patterns in one area of the brain onto other spatio-temporal spike patterns in another region and of long term memories in cortex. Our results underline that learning processes in realistic networks of spiking neurons depend crucially on the interactions of synaptic plasticity mechanisms with the dynamics of participating neurons.
Optimistic Concurrency Control for Distributed Unsupervised Learning,Research on distributed machine learning algorithms has focused primarily on one of two extremes---algorithms that obey strict concurrency constraints or algorithms that obey few or no such constraints.  We consider an intermediate alternative in which algorithms optimistically assume that conflicts are unlikely and if conflicts do arise a conflict-resolution protocol is invoked. We view this "optimistic concurrency control'' paradigm as particularly appropriate for large-scale machine learning algorithms, particularly in the unsupervised setting.  We demonstrate our approach in three problem areas: clustering, feature learning and online facility location.  We evaluate  our methods via large-scale experiments in a cluster computing environment.
Real-Time Inference for a Gamma Process Model of Neural Spiking,With simultaneous measurements from ever increasing populations of neurons, there is a growing need for sophisticated tools to recover signals from individual neurons. In electrophysiology experiments, this classically proceeds in a two-step process: (i) threshold the waveforms to detect putative spikes and (ii) cluster the waveforms into single units (neurons). We extend previous Bayesian nonparamet- ric models of neural spiking to jointly detect and cluster neurons using a Gamma process model. Importantly, we develop an online approximate inference scheme enabling real-time analysis, with performance exceeding the previous state-of-the- art. Via exploratory data analysisusing data with partial ground truth as well as two novel data setswe find several features of our model collectively contribute to our improved performance including: (i) accounting for colored noise, (ii) de- tecting overlapping spikes, (iii) tracking waveform dynamics, and (iv) using mul- tiple channels. We hope to enable novel experiments simultaneously measuring many thousands of neurons and possibly adapting stimuli dynamically to probe ever deeper into the mysteries of the brain.
Inferring neural population dynamics from multiple partial recordings of the same neural circuit,Simultaneous recordings of the activity of large neural populations are extremely valuable as they can be used to infer the dynamics and interactions of neurons in a local circuit, shedding light on the computations performed. It is now possible to measure the activity of hundreds of neurons  using 2-photon calcium imaging. However, many computations are thought to involve circuits consisting of thousands of neurons, such as cortical barrels in rodent somatosensory cortex. Here we contribute a statistical method for "stitching" together sequentially imaged sets of neurons into one model  by phrasing the problem as fitting a latent dynamical system with missing observations. This method allows us to substantially expand the population-sizes for which population dynamics can be characterized---beyond the number of simultaneously imaged neurons. In particular, we demonstrate using recordings in mouse somatosensory cortex that this method makes it possible to predict noise correlations between non-simultaneously recorded neuron pairs.
Translating Embeddings for Modeling Multi-relational Data,We consider the problem of embedding entities and relationships of multi-relational data in low-dimensional vector spaces. Our objective is to propose a canonical model which is easy to train, contains a reduced number of parameters and can scale up to very large databases. Hence, we propose, TransE, a method which models relationships by interpreting them as translations operating on the low-dimensional embeddings of the entities. Despite its simplicity, this assumption proves to be powerful since extensive experiments show that TransE significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods in link prediction on two knowledge bases. Besides, it can be successfully trained on a large scale data set with 1M entities, 25k relationships and more than 17M training samples.
Provable Subspace Clustering: When LRR meets SSC,Sparse Subspace Clustering (SSC) and Low-Rank Representation (LRR) are both considered as the state-of-the-art methods for {\em subspace clustering}. The two methods are fundamentally similar in that both are convex optimizations exploiting the intuition of "Self-Expressiveness''. The main difference is that SSC minimizes the vector $\ell_1$ norm of the representation matrix to induce sparsity while LRR minimizes nuclear norm (aka trace norm) to promote a low-rank structure. Because the representation matrix is often simultaneously sparse and low-rank,  we propose a new algorithm, termed Low-Rank Sparse Subspace Clustering (LRSSC), by combining SSC and LRR, and develops theoretical guarantees of when the algorithm succeeds. The results reveal interesting insights into the strength and weakness of SSC and LRR and demonstrate how LRSSC can take the advantages of both methods in preserving the "Self-Expressiveness Property'' and "Graph Connectivity'' at the same time.
On the Expressive Power of Restricted Boltzmann Machines,This paper examines the question: What kinds of distributions can be efficiently represented by Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs)?   We characterize the RBM's unnormalized log-likelihood function as a type of neural network (called an RBM network), and through a series of simulation results relate these networks to types that are better understood.  We show the surprising result that RBM networks can efficiently compute any function that depends on the number of 1's in the input, such as parity.  We also provide the first known example of a particular type of distribution which provably cannot be efficiently represented by an RBM (or equivalently, cannot be efficiently computed by an RBM network), assuming a realistic exponential upper bound on the size of the weights.  By formally demonstrating that a relatively simple distribution cannot be represented efficiently by an RBM our results provide a new rigorous justification for the use of potentially more expressive generative models, such as deeper ones.
A Deep Architecture for Matching Short Texts,Many machine learning problems can be interpreted as learning for matching two types of objects (e.g., images and captions, users and products, queries and documents). The matching level of two objects is usually measured as the inner product in a certain feature space, while the modeling effort focuses on mapping of objects from the original space to the feature space. This schema, although proven successful on a range of matching tasks, is insufficient for capturing the rich structure in the matching process of more complicated objects.  In this paper, we propose a new deep architecture to more effectively model the complicated matching relations between two objects from heterogeneous domains. More specifically, we apply this model to matching tasks in natural language, e.g., finding sensible responses for a tweet, or  relevant answers to a given question. This new architecture naturally combines the localness and hierarchy intrinsic to the natural language problems, and therefore greatly improves upon the state-of-the-art models.
Simultaneous Rectification and Alignment via Robust Recovery of Low-rank Tensors,In this work, we propose a general method for recovering low-rank three-order tensors, in which the data can be deformed by some unknown transformation and corrupted by arbitrary sparse errors. Since the unfolding matrices of a tensor are interdependent, we introduce auxiliary variables and relax the hard equality constraints by the augmented Lagrange multiplier method. To improve the computational efficiency, we introduce a proximal gradient step to the alternating direction minimization method. We have provided proof for the convergence of the linearized version of the problem which is the inner loop of the overall algorithm. Both simulations and experiments show that our methods are more efficient and effective than previous work. The proposed method can be easily applied to simultaneously  rectify and align multiple images or videos frames. In this context, the state-of-the-art algorithms "RASL'' and "TILT'' can be viewed as two special cases of our work, and yet each only performs part of the function of our method.
A memory frontier for complex synapses,An incredible gulf separates theoretical models of synapses, often described solely by a single scalar value denoting the size of a postsynaptic potential, from the immense complexity of molecular signaling pathways underlying real synapses. To understand the functional contribution of such molecular complexity to learning and memory, it is essential to expand our theoretical conception of a synapse from a single scalar to an entire dynamical system with many internal molecular functional states. Moreover, theoretical considerations alone demand such an expansion; network models with scalar synapses assuming finite numbers of distinguishable synaptic strengths have strikingly limited memory capacity. This raises the fundamental question, how does synaptic complexity give rise to memory? To address this, we develop new mathematical theorems elucidating the relationship between the structural organization and memory properties of complex synapses that are themselves molecular networks. Moreover, in proving such theorems, we uncover a framework, based on first passage time theory, to impose an order on the internal states of complex synaptic models, thereby simplifying the relationship between synaptic structure and function.
A simple example of Dirichlet process mixture inconsistency for the number of components,For data assumed to come from a finite mixture with an unknown number of components, it has become common to use Dirichlet process mixtures (DPMs) not only for density estimation, but also for inferences about the number of components. The typical approach is to use the posterior distribution on the number of components occurring so far --- that is, the posterior on the number of clusters in the observed data. However, it turns out that this posterior is not consistent --- it does not converge to the true number of components. In this note, we give an elementary demonstration of this inconsistency in what is perhaps the simplest possible setting: a DPM with normal components of unit variance, applied to data from a "mixture" with one standard normal component. Further, we find that this example exhibits severe inconsistency: instead of going to 1, the posterior probability that there is one cluster goes to 0.
Adaptive Anonymity via $b$-Matching,The adaptive anonymity problem is formalized where each individual shares their data along with an integer value to indicate their personal level of desired privacy. This problem leads to a generalization of $k$-anonymity to the $b$-matching setting. Novel algorithms and theory are provided to implement this type of anonymity. The relaxation achieves better utility, admits theoretical privacy guarantees that are as strong, and, most importantly, accommodates a variable level of anonymity for each individual. Empirical results confirm improved utility on benchmark and social data-sets.
Predicting Parameters in Deep Learning,We demonstrate that there is significant redundancy in the parameterization of   several deep learning models.  Given only a few weight values for each feature   it is possible to accurately predict the remaining values.  Moreover, we show   that not only can the parameter values be predicted, but many of them need not   be learned at all.  We train several different architectures by learning only   a small number of weights and predicting the rest.  In the best case we are   able to predict more than 95% of the weights of a network without any drop in   accuracy.
Distributed Representations of Words and Phrases and their Compositionality,The recently introduced continuous Skip-gram model is an efficient method for learning high-quality distributed vector representations that capture a large number of precise syntactic and semantic word relationships.  In this paper we present several improvements that make the Skip-gram model more expressive and enable it to learn higher quality vectors more rapidly.  We show that by subsampling frequent words we obtain significant speedup,  and also learn higher quality representations as measured by our tasks. We also introduce Negative Sampling, a simplified variant of Noise Contrastive Estimation (NCE) that learns more accurate vectors for frequent words compared to the hierarchical softmax.   An inherent limitation of word representations is their indifference to word order and their inability to represent idiomatic phrases.  For example, the meanings of "Canada'' and "Air'' cannot be easily combined to obtain "Air Canada''.  Motivated by this example, we present a simple and efficient method for finding phrases, and show that their vector representations can be accurately learned by the Skip-gram model.
Regret based Robust Solutions for Uncertain Markov Decision Processes,In this paper, we seek robust policies for uncertain Markov Decision Processes (MDPs). Most robust optimization approaches for these problems have focussed on the computation of {\em maximin} policies which maximize the value corresponding to the worst realization of the uncertainty. Recent work has proposed {\em minimax} regret as a suitable alternative to the {\em maximin} objective for robust optimization.  However, existing algorithms for handling {\em minimax} regret are restricted to models with uncertainty over rewards only.  We provide algorithms that employ sampling to improve across multiple dimensions: (a) Handle uncertainties over both transition and reward models; (b) Dependence of model uncertainties across state, action pairs and decision epochs; (c) Scalability and quality bounds. Finally, to demonstrate the empirical effectiveness of our sampling approaches, we provide comparisons against benchmark algorithms on two domains from literature. We also provide a Sample Average Approximation (SAA) analysis to compute a posteriori error bounds.
Nonparametric Multi-group Membership Model for Dynamic Networks,Relational datalike graphs, networks, and matricesis often dynamic, where the relational structure evolves over time. A fundamental problem in the analysis of time-varying network data is to extract a summary of the common structure and the dynamics of underlying relations between entities. Here we build on the intuition that changes in the network structure are driven by the dynamics at the level of groups of nodes. We propose a nonparametric multi-group membership model for dynamic networks. Our model contains three main components. We model the birth and death of groups with respect to the dynamics of the network structure via a distance dependent Indian Buffet Process. We capture the evolution of individual node group memberships via a Factorial Hidden Markov model. And, we explain the dynamics of the network structure by explicitly modeling the connectivity structure. We demonstrate our models capability of identifying the dynamics of latent groups in a number of different types of network data. Experimental results show our model achieves higher predictive performance on the future network forecasting and missing link prediction.
Auxiliary-variable Exact Hamiltonian Monte Carlo Samplers for Binary Distributions,We present a new approach to sample from generic binary distributions, based on an exact  Hamiltonian Monte Carlo algorithm applied to a piecewise continuous augmentation  of the binary distribution of interest. An extension of this idea to distributions over mixtures of binary and continuous variables allows us to sample from posteriors of   linear and probit regression models with spike-and-slab priors and truncated parameters. We illustrate the advantages of these algorithms in several examples in which they outperform the Metropolis or Gibbs samplers.
A New Convex Relaxation for Tensor Completion,We study the problem of learning a tensor from a set of linear measurements. A prominent methodology for this problem is based on the extension of trace norm regularization, which has been used extensively for learning low rank matrices, to the tensor setting.  In this paper, we highlight some limitations of this approach and propose an alternative convex relaxation on the Euclidean unit ball.  We then describe a technique to solve the associated regularization problem, which builds upon the alternating direction method of multipliers. Experiments on one synthetic dataset and two real datasets indicate that the proposed method improves significantly over tensor trace norm regularization in terms of estimation error, while remaining computationally tractable.
Learning Hidden Markov Models from Non-sequence Data via Tensor Decomposition,Learning dynamic models from observed data has been a central issue in many scientific  studies or engineering tasks. The usual setting is that data are collected sequentially  from trajectories of some dynamical system operation.   In quite a few modern scientific modeling tasks, however, it turns out that  reliable sequential data are rather difficult to gather, whereas out-of-order snapshots are much easier to obtain. Examples include the modeling of galaxies, chronic diseases such Alzheimer's, or certain biological processes.  Existing methods for learning dynamic model from non-sequence data are mostly based on Expectation-Maximization, which involves non-convex optimization and is thus hard to analyze.  Inspired by recent advances in spectral learning methods, we propose to study this problem  from a different perspective: moment matching and spectral decomposition. Under that framework,  we identify reasonable assumptions on the generative process of non-sequence data,  and propose learning algorithms based on the tensor decomposition method  \cite{anandkumar2012tensor} to \textit{provably} recover first-order Markov models and hidden Markov models. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first formal guarantee on learning from non-sequence data. Preliminary simulation results confirm our theoretical findings.
Near-Optimal Entrywise Sampling for Data Matrices,We consider the problem of independently sampling $s$ non-zero entries of a matrix $A$ in order to produce a sparse sketch of it, $B$, that minimizes $\|A-B\|_2$.  For large $m \times n$ matrices, such that $n \gg m$ (for example, representing $n$ observations over $m$ attributes) we give  distributions exhibiting four important properties. First, they have closed forms for the probability of sampling each item which are computable from minimal information regarding $A$.  Second, they allow sketching of matrices whose non-zeros are presented to the algorithm in arbitrary order as a stream, with $O(1)$ computation per non-zero.  Third, the resulting sketch matrices are not only sparse, but their non-zero entries are highly compressible.  Lastly, and most importantly, under mild assumptions, our distributions are provably competitive with the optimal offline distribution.  Note that the probabilities in the optimal offline distribution may be complex functions of all the entries in the matrix.  Therefore, regardless of computational complexity, the optimal distribution might be impossible to compute in the streaming model.
Bayesian entropy estimation for binary spike train data using parametric prior knowledge,Shannon's entropy is a basic quantity in information theory, and a  fundamental building block for the analysis of neural codes.   Estimating the entropy of a discrete distribution from samples is an important and difficult problem that has received considerable   attention in statistics and theoretical neuroscience.  However,  neural responses have characteristic statistical structure that   generic entropy estimators fail to exploit.  For example, existing  Bayesian entropy estimators make the naive assumption that all spike   words are equally likely a priori, which makes for an  inefficient allocation of prior probability mass in cases where   spikes are sparse.  Here we develop Bayesian estimators for the  entropy of binary spike trains using priors designed to flexibly   exploit the statistical structure of simultaneously-recorded spike  responses.  We define two prior distributions over spike words using   mixtures of Dirichlet distributions centered on simple parametric  models.  The parametric model captures high-level statistical   features of the data, such as the average spike count in a spike  word, which allows the posterior over entropy to concentrate more   rapidly than with standard estimators (e.g., in cases where the  probability of spiking differs strongly from 0.5). Conversely, the   Dirichlet distributions assign prior mass to distributions far from  the parametric model, ensuring consistent estimates for arbitrary   distributions.  We devise a compact representation of the data and  prior that allow for computationally efficient implementations of   Bayesian least squares and empirical Bayes entropy estimators with  large numbers of neurons.  We apply these estimators to simulated   and real neural data and show that they substantially outperform  traditional methods.
Demixing odors - fast inference in olfaction,The olfactory system faces a difficult inference problem: it has to determine what odors are present based on the distributed activation of its receptor neurons. Here we derive neural implementations of two approximate inference algorithms that could be used by the brain. One is a variational algorithm (which builds on the work of Beck. et al., 2012), the other is based on sampling. Importantly, we use a more realistic prior distribution over odors than has been used in the past: we use a "spike and slab'' prior, for which most odors have zero concentration. After mapping the two algorithms onto neural dynamics, we find that both can infer correct odors in less than 100 ms, although it takes ~500 ms to eliminate false positives. Thus, at the behavioral level, the two algorithms make very similar predictions. However, they make different assumptions about connectivity and neural computations, and make different predictions about neural activity. Thus, they should be distinguishable experimentally.  If so, that would provide insight into the mechanisms employed by the olfactory system, and, because the two algorithms use very different coding strategies, that would also provide insight into how networks represent probabilities.
Flexible sampling of discrete data correlations without the marginal distributions,Learning the joint dependence of discrete variables is a fundamental problem in machine learning, with many applications including prediction, clustering and dimensionality reduction. More recently, the framework of copula modeling has gained popularity due to its modular parametrization of joint distributions. Among other properties, copulas provide a recipe for combining flexible models for univariate marginal distributions with parametric families suitable for potentially high dimensional dependence structures. More radically, the extended rank likelihood approach of Hoff (2007) bypasses learning marginal models completely when such information is ancillary to the learning task at hand as in, e.g., standard dimensionality reduction problems or copula parameter estimation. The main idea is to represent data by their observable rank statistics, ignoring any other information from the marginals. Inference is typically done in a Bayesian framework with Gaussian copulas, and it is complicated by the fact this implies sampling within a space where the number of constraints increase quadratically with the number of data points. The result is slow mixing when using off-the-shelf Gibbs sampling. We present an efficient algorithm based on recent advances on constrained Hamiltonian Markov chain Monte Carlo that is simple to implement and does not require paying for a quadratic cost in sample size.
RNADE: The real-valued neural autoregressive density-estimator,We introduce RNADE, a new model for joint density estimation of real-valued vectors. Our model calculates the density of a datapoint as the product of one-dimensional conditionals modeled using mixture density networks with shared parameters. RNADE learns a distributed representation of the data, while having a tractable expression for the calculation of densities. A tractable likelihood allows direct comparison with other methods and training by standard gradient-based optimizers. We compare the performance of RNADE on several datasets of heterogeneous and perceptual data, finding it outperforms mixture models in all but one case.
Recurrent linear models of simultaneously-recorded neural   populations,Population neural recordings with long-range temporal structure are often best understood in terms of a shared underlying low-dimensional dynamical process. Advances in recording technology provide access to an ever larger fraction of the population, but the standard computational approaches available to identify the collective dynamics scale poorly with the size of the dataset. Here we describe a new, scalable approach to discovering the low-dimensional dynamics that underlie simultaneously recorded spike trains from a neural population. Our method is based on recurrent linear models (RLMs), and relates closely to timeseries models based on recurrent neural networks. We formulate RLMs for neural data by generalising the Kalman-filter-based likelihood calculation for latent linear dynamical systems (LDS) models to incorporate a generalised-linear observation process. We show that RLMs describe motor-cortical population data better than either directly-coupled generalised-linear models or latent linear dynamical system models with generalised-linear observations. We also introduce the cascaded linear model (CLM) to capture low-dimensional instantaneous correlations in neural populations. The CLM describes the cortical recordings better than either Ising or Gaussian models and, like the RLM, can be fit exactly and quickly. The CLM can also be seen as a generalization of a low-rank Gaussian model, in this case factor analysis. The computational tractability of the RLM and CLM allow both to scale to very high-dimensional neural data.
On Decomposing the Proximal Map,The proximal map is the key step in gradient-type algorithms, which have become prevalent in large-scale high-dimensional problems. For simple functions this proximal map is available in closed-form while for more complicated functions it can become highly nontrivial. Motivated by the need of combining regularizers to simultaneously induce different types of structures, this paper initiates a systematic investigation of when the proximal map of a sum of functions decomposes into the composition of the proximal maps of the individual summands. We not only unify a few known results scattered in the literature but also discover several new decompositions obtained almost effortlessly from our theory.
Integrated Non-Factorized Variational Inference,We present a non-factorized variational method for full posterior inference in Bayesian hierarchical models,  with the goal of capturing the posterior variable dependencies via efficient and possibly parallel computation. Our approach unifies the integrated nested Laplace approximation (INLA) under the variational framework. The proposed method is applicable in more challenging scenarios than typically assumed by INLA,  such as Bayesian Lasso,  which is characterized by the non-differentiability of the $\ell_{1}$ norm arising from independent Laplace priors. We derive an upper bound for the Kullback-Leibler divergence,  which yields a fast closed-form solution via decoupled optimization. Our method is a reliable analytic alternative to Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC), and it results in a tighter evidence lower bound than that of mean-field variational Bayes (VB) method.
Correlations strike back (again): the case of associative memory retrieval,It has long been recognised that statistical dependencies in neuronal activity need to be taken into account when decoding stimuli encoded in a neural population. Less studied, though equally pernicious, is the need to take account of dependencies between synaptic weights when decoding patterns previously encoded in an auto-associative memory. We show that activity-dependent learning generically produces such correlations, and failing to take them into account in the dynamics of memory retrieval leads to catastrophically poor recall. We derive optimal network dynamics for recall in the face of synaptic correlations caused by a range of synaptic plasticity rules. These dynamics involve well-studied circuit motifs, such as forms of feedback inhibition and experimentally observed dendritic nonlinearities. We therefore show how addressing the problem of synaptic correlations leads to a novel functional account of key biophysical features of the neural substrate.
Stochastic blockmodel approximation of a graphon: Theory and consistent estimation,Given a convergent sequence of graphs, there exists a limit object called the graphon from which random graphs are generated. This nonparametric perspective of random graphs opens the door to study graphs beyond the traditional parametric models, but at the same time also poses the challenging question of how to estimate the graphon underlying observed graphs. In this paper, we propose a computationally efficient algorithm to estimate a graphon from a set of observed graphs generated from it. We show that, by approximating the graphon with stochastic block models, the graphon can be consistently estimated, that is, the estimation error vanishes as the size of the graph approaches infinity.
A Determinantal Point Process Latent Variable Model for Inhibition in Neural Spiking Data,Point processes are popular models of neural spiking behavior as they provide a statistical distribution over temporal sequences of spikes and help to reveal the complexities underlying a series of recorded action potentials.  However, the most common neural point process models, the Poisson process and the gamma renewal process, do not capture interactions and correlations that are critical to modeling populations of neurons.  We develop a novel model based on a determinantal point process over latent embeddings of neurons that effectively captures and helps visualize complex inhibitory and competitive interaction.  We show that this model is a natural extension of the popular generalized linear model to sets of interacting neurons.   The model is extended to incorporate gain control or divisive normalization, and the modulation of neural spiking based on periodic phenomena.  Applied to neural spike recordings from the rat hippocampus, we see that the model captures inhibitory relationships, a dichotomy of classes of neurons, and a periodic modulation by the theta rhythm known to be present in the data.
Approximate Bayesian Image Interpretation using Generative Probabilistic Graphics Programs,The idea of computer vision as the Bayesian inverse problem to computer graphics has a long history and an appealing elegance, but it has proved difficult to directly implement. Instead, most vision tasks are approached via complex bottom-up processing pipelines. Here we show that it is possible to write short, simple probabilistic graphics programs that define flexible generative models and to automatically invert them to interpret real-world images. Generative probabilistic graphics programs consist of a stochastic scene generator, a renderer based on graphics software, a stochastic likelihood model linking the renderer's output and the data, and latent variables that adjust the fidelity of the renderer and the tolerance of the likelihood model. Representations and algorithms from computer graphics, originally designed to produce high-quality images, are instead used as the deterministic backbone for highly approximate and stochastic generative models. This formulation combines probabilistic programming, computer graphics, and approximate Bayesian computation, and depends only on general-purpose, automatic inference techniques. We describe two applications: reading sequences of degraded and adversarially obscured alphanumeric characters, and inferring 3D road models from vehicle-mounted camera images. Each of the probabilistic graphics programs we present relies on under 20 lines of probabilistic code, and supports accurate, approximately Bayesian inferences about ambiguous real-world images.
Multisensory Encoding, Decoding, and Identification,We investigate a spiking neuron model of multisensory integration. Multiple stimuli from different sensory modalities are encoded by a single neural circuit comprised of a multisensory bank of receptive fields in cascade with a population of biophysical spike generators. We demonstrate that stimuli of different dimensions can be faithfully multiplexed and encoded in the spike domain and derive tractable algorithms for decoding each stimulus from the common pool of spikes. We also show that the identification of multisensory processing in a single neuron is dual to the recovery of stimuli encoded with a population of multisensory neurons, and prove that only a projection of the circuit onto input stimuli can be identified. We provide an example of multisensory integration using natural audio and video and discuss the performance of the proposed decoding and identification algorithms.
Top-Down Regularization of Deep Belief Networks,Designing a principled and effective algorithm for learning deep architectures is a challenging problem. The current approach involves two training phases: a fully unsupervised learning followed by a strongly discriminative optimization. We suggest a deep learning strategy that bridges the gap between the two phases, resulting in a three-phase learning procedure. We propose to implement the scheme using a method to regularize deep belief networks with top-down information. The network is constructed from building blocks of restricted Boltzmann machines learned by combining bottom-up and top-down sampled signals. A global optimization procedure that merges samples from a forward bottom-up pass and a top-down pass is used. Experiments on the MNIST dataset show improvements over the existing algorithms for deep belief networks. Object recognition results on the Caltech-101 dataset also yield competitive results.
Exact and Stable Recovery of Pairwise Interaction Tensors,Tensor completion from incomplete observations is a problem of significant practical interest.  However, it is unlikely that there exists an efficient algorithm with provable guarantee to recover a general tensor from a limited number of observations. In this paper, we study the recovery algorithm for pairwise interaction tensors, which has recently gained considerable attention for modeling multiple attribute data due to its simplicity and effectiveness. Specifically, in the absence of noise, we show that one can exactly recover a pairwise interaction tensor by solving a constrained convex program which minimizes the weighted sum of nuclear norms of matrices from $O(nr\log^2(n))$ observations.  For the noisy cases, we also prove error bounds for a constrained convex program for recovering the tensors. Our experiments on the synthetic dataset demonstrate that the recovery performance of our algorithm agrees well with the theory. In addition, we apply our algorithm on a temporal collaborative filtering task and obtain state-of-the-art results.
Efficient Online Inference for Bayesian Nonparametric Relational Models,Stochastic block models characterize observed network relationships via latent community memberships. In large social networks, we expect entities to participate in multiple communities, and the number of communities to grow with the network size. We introduce a new model for these phenomena, the hierarchical Dirichlet process relational model, which allows nodes to have mixed membership in an unbounded set of communities. To allow scalable learning, we derive an online stochastic variational inference algorithm. Focusing on assortative models of undirected networks, we also propose an efficient structured mean field variational bound, and online methods for automatically pruning unused communities. Compared to state-of-the-art online learning methods for parametric relational models, we show significantly improved perplexity and link prediction accuracy for sparse networks with tens of thousands of nodes. We also showcase an analysis of LittleSis, a large network of who-knows-who at the heights of business and government.
Structured Learning via Logistic Regression,A successful approach to structured learning is to write the learning objective as a joint function of linear parameters and inference messages, and iterate between updates to each. This paper observes that if the inference problem is smoothed through the addition of entropy terms, for fixed messages, the learning objective reduces to a traditional (non-structured) logistic regression problem with respect to parameters. In these logistic regression problems, each training example has a bias term determined by the current set of messages. Based on this insight, the structured energy function can be extended from linear factors to any function class where an oracle exists to minimize a logistic loss.
Understanding Dropout,Dropout is a relatively new algorithm for training neural networks which relies on stochastically "dropping out'' neurons during training in order to avoid the co-adaptation of feature detectors. We introduce a general formalism for studying dropout on either units or connections, with arbitrary probability values, and use it to analyze the averaging and regularizing properties of dropout in both linear and non-linear networks. For deep neural networks, the averaging properties of dropout are characterized by three recursive equations, including the approximation of expectations by normalized weighted geometric means. We provide estimates and bounds for these approximations and corroborate the results with simulations. We also show in simple cases how dropout performs stochastic gradient descent on a regularized error function.
Large Scale Distributed Sparse Precision Estimation,We consider the problem of sparse precision matrix estimation in high dimensions using the CLIME estimator, which has several desirable theoretical properties. We present an inexact alternating direction method of multiplier (ADMM) algorithm for CLIME, and establish rates of convergence for both the objective and optimality conditions. Further, we develop a large scale distributed framework for the computations, which scales to millions of dimensions and trillions of parameters, using hundreds of cores. The proposed framework solves CLIME in column-blocks and only involves elementwise operations and parallel matrix multiplications.  We evaluate our algorithm on both shared-memory and distributed-memory architectures, which can use block cyclic distribution of data and parameters to achieve load balance and improve the efficiency in the use of memory hierarchies. Experimental results show that our algorithm is substantially more scalable than state-of-the-art methods and scales almost linearly with the number of cores.
Approximate inference in latent Gaussian-Markov models from continuous time observations,We propose an approximate inference algorithm for continuous time Gaussian-Markov process models with both discrete and continuous time likelihoods. We show that the continuous time limit of the expectation propagation algorithm exists and results in a hybrid fixed point iteration consisting of (1) expectation propagation updates for the discrete time terms and (2) variational updates for the continuous time term. We introduce corrections methods that improve on the marginals of the approximation. This approach extends the classical Kalman-Bucy smoothing procedure to non-Gaussian observations, enabling continuous-time inference in a variety of models, including spiking neuronal models (state-space models with point process observations) and box likelihood models. Experimental results on real and simulated data demonstrate high distributional accuracy and significant computational savings compared to discrete-time approaches in a neural application.
Matrix Completion From any Given Set of Observations,In the matrix completion problem the aim is to recover an unknown real matrix from a subset of its entries.  This problem comes up in many application areas, and has received a great deal of attention in the context of the netflix prize.  A central approach to this problem is to output a matrix of lowest  possible complexity (e.g. rank or trace norm) that agrees with the partially  specified matrix.  The performance of this approach under the assumption that the revealed entries are sampled randomly   has received considerable attention. In practice, often the set of revealed entries is not chosen at random and these results do not apply. We are therefore left with no guarantees on the performance of the algorithm we are using.  We present a means to obtain performance guarantees with respect to any set of initial observations.  The first  step remains the same: find a matrix of lowest possible complexity that agrees with the partially specified matrix.   We give a new way to interpret the output of this algorithm by next finding a probability distribution over  the non-revealed entries with respect to which a bound on the generalization error can be proven.  The more  complex the set of revealed entries according to a certain measure, the better the bound on the generalization  error.
Transportability from Multiple Environments with Limited Experiments,This paper considers the problem of transferring experimental findings learned from multiple heterogeneous domains to a target environment, in which only limited experiments can be performed. We reduce questions of transportability from multiple domains and with limited scope to symbolic derivations in the do-calculus, thus extending the treatment of transportability from full experiments introduced in Pearl and Bareinboim (2011). We further provide different graphical and algorithmic conditions for computing the transport formula for this setting, that is, a way of fusing the observational and experimental information scattered throughout different domains to synthesize a consistent estimate of the desired effects.
Causal Inference on Time Series using Restricted Structural Equation Models,Causal inference uses observational data to infer the causal structure of the data generating system. We study a class of restricted Structural Equation Models for time series that we call Time Series Models with Independent Noise (TiMINo). These models require independent residual time series, whereas traditional methods like Granger causality exploit the variance of residuals. This work contains two main contributions: (1) Theoretical: By restricting the model class (e.g. to additive noise) we provide more general identifiability results than existing ones. The results cover lagged and instantaneous effects that can be nonlinear and unfaithful, and non-instantaneous feedbacks between the time series. (2) Practical: If there are no feedback loops between time series, we propose an algorithm based on non-linear independence tests of time series. When the data are causally insufficient, or the data generating process does not satisfy the model assumptions, this algorithm may still give partial results, but mostly avoids incorrect answers. The Structural Equation Model point of view allows us to extend both the theoretical and the algorithmic part to situations in which the time series have been measured with different time delays (as may happen for fMRI data, for example). TiMINo outperforms existing methods on artificial and real data. Code is provided.
Unsupervised Spectral Learning of Finite State Transducers,Finite-State Transducers (FST) are a standard tool for modeling paired input-output sequences and are used in numerous applications, ranging from computational biology to natural language processing. Recently Balle et al. presented a spectral algorithm for learning FST from samples of aligned input-output sequences.  In this paper we address the more realistic, yet challenging setting where the alignments are unknown to the learning algorithm. We frame FST learning as finding a low rank Hankel matrix satisfying constraints derived from observable statistics. Under this formulation, we provide identifiability results for FST distributions. Then, following previous work on rank minimization, we propose a regularized convex relaxation of this objective which is based on minimizing a nuclear norm penalty subject to linear constraints and can be solved efficiently.
Reciprocally Coupled Local Estimators Implement Bayesian Information Integration Distributively,Psychophysical experiments have demonstrated that the brain integrates information from multiple sensory cues in a near Bayesian optimal manner. The present study proposes a novel mechanism to achieve this. We consider two reciprocally connected networks, mimicking the integration of heading direction information between the dorsal medial superior temporal (MSTd) and the ventral intraparietal (VIP) areas. Each network serves as a local estimator and receives an independent cue, either the visual or the vestibular, as direct input for the external stimulus. We find that positive reciprocal interactions can improve the decoding accuracy of each individual network as if it implements Bayesian inference from two cues. Our model successfully explains the experimental finding that both MSTd and VIP achieve Bayesian multisensory integration, though each of them only receives a single cue as direct external input. Our result suggests that the brain may implement optimal information integration distributively at each local estimator through the reciprocal connections between cortical regions.
Wavelets on Graphs via Deep Learning,An increasing number of applications require processing of signals defined on weighted graphs. While wavelets provide a flexible tool for signal processing in the classical setting of regular domains, the existing graph wavelet constructions are less flexible -- they are guided solely by the structure of the underlying graph and do not take directly into consideration the particular class of signals to be processed. This paper introduces a machine learning framework for constructing graph wavelets that can sparsely represent a given class of signals. Our construction uses the lifting scheme, and is based on the observation that the recurrent nature of the lifting scheme gives rise to a structure resembling a deep auto-encoder network. Particular properties that the resulting wavelets must satisfy determine the training objective and the structure of the involved neural networks. The training is unsupervised, and is conducted similarly to the greedy pre-training of a stack of auto-encoders. After training is completed, we obtain a linear wavelet transform that can be applied to any graph signal in time and memory linear in the size of the graph. Improved sparsity of our wavelet transform for the test signals is confirmed via experiments both on synthetic and real data.
Global Solver and Its Efficient Approximation for Variational Bayesian Low-rank Subspace Clustering,When a probabilistic model and its  prior are given, Bayesian learning offers inference with automatic parameter tuning. However, Bayesian learning is often obstructed by computational difficulty: the rigorous Bayesian learning is  intractable in many models, and its variational Bayesian (VB) approximation is prone to suffer from local minima. In this paper, we overcome this difficulty for low-rank subspace clustering (LRSC) by providing an exact global solver and its efficient approximation. LRSC extracts a low-dimensional structure of data by embedding  samples into the union of low-dimensional subspaces, and its variational Bayesian variant has shown good performance. We first prove a key property that the VB-LRSC model is highly redundant. Thanks to this property, the optimization problem of VB-LRSC can be separated into small subproblems, each of which has only a small number of unknown variables. Our exact global solver relies on another key property that the stationary condition of each subproblem is written as a set of polynomial equations, which is solvable with the homotopy method. For further computational efficiency,  we also propose an efficient approximate variant, of which the stationary condition can be written as a polynomial equation with a single variable. Experimental results show the usefulness of our approach.
Robust Image Denoising with Multi-Column Deep Neural Networks,Stacked sparse denoising auto-encoders (SSDAs) have recently been shown to be successful at removing noise from corrupted images. However, like most denoising techniques, the SSDA is not robust to variation in noise types beyond what it has seen during training. We present the multi-column stacked sparse denoising autoencoder, a novel technique of combining multiple SSDAs into a multi-column SSDA (MC-SSDA) by combining the outputs of each SSDA. We eliminate the need to determine the type of noise, let alone its statistics, at test time. We show that good denoising performance can be achieved with a single system on a variety of different noise types, including ones not seen in the training set. Additionally, we experimentally demonstrate the efficacy of MC-SSDA denoising by achieving MNIST digit error rates on denoised images at close to that of the uncorrupted images.
Learning with Noisy Labels,In this paper, we theoretically study the problem of binary classification in the presence of random classification noise --- the learner, instead of seeing the true labels, sees labels that have independently been flipped with some small probability. Moreover, random label noise is \emph{class-conditional} --- the flip probability depends on the class. We provide two approaches to suitably modify any given surrogate loss function. First, we provide a simple unbiased estimator of any loss, and obtain performance bounds for empirical risk minimization in the presence of iid data with noisy labels. If the loss function satisfies a simple symmetry condition, we show that the method leads to an efficient algorithm for empirical minimization. Second, by leveraging a reduction of risk minimization under noisy labels to classification with weighted 0-1 loss, we suggest the use of a simple weighted surrogate loss, for which we are able to obtain strong empirical risk bounds. This approach has a very remarkable consequence --- methods used in practice such as biased SVM and weighted logistic regression are provably noise-tolerant. On a synthetic non-separable dataset, our methods achieve over 88\% accuracy even when 40\% of the labels are corrupted, and are competitive with respect to recently proposed methods for dealing with label noise in several benchmark datasets.
Matrix factorization with binary components,Motivated by an application in computational biology, we consider constrained low-rank matrix factorization problems with $\{0,1\}$-constraints on one of the factors. In addition to the the non-convexity shared with more general matrix factorization schemes, our problem is further complicated by a combinatorial constraint set of size $2^{m \cdot r}$, where $m$ is the dimension of the data points and $r$ the rank of the factorization. Despite apparent intractability, we provide $-$in the line of recent work on non-negative matrix factorization by Arora et al.~(2012)$-$ an algorithm that provably recovers the underlying factorization in the exact case with operations of the order $O(m r 2^r + mnr)$ in the worst case. To obtain that result, we invoke theory centered around a fundamental result in combinatorics, the Littlewood-Offord lemma.
Variance Reduction for Stochastic Gradient Optimization,Stochastic gradient optimization is a class of widely used algorithms for training machine learning models. To optimize an objective, it uses the noisy gradient computed from the random data samples instead of the true gradient computed from the entire dataset. However, when the variance of the noisy gradient is large, the algorithm might spend much time bouncing around, leading to slower convergence and worse performance. In this paper, we develop a general approach of using control variate for variance reduction in stochastic gradient. Data statistics such as low-order moments (pre-computed or estimated online) is used to form the control variate. We demonstrate how to construct the control variate for two practical problems using stochastic gradient optimization. One is convex---the MAP estimation for logistic regression, and the other is non-convex---stochastic variational inference for latent Dirichlet allocation. On both problems, our approach shows faster convergence and better performance than the classical approach.
Capacity of strong attractor patterns to model behavioural and cognitive prototypes,We solve the mean field equations for a stochastic Hopfield network with temperature (noise) in the presence of strong, i.e., multiply stored patterns, and use this solution to obtain the storage capacity of such a network. Our result provides for the first time a rigorous solution of the mean field equations for the standard Hopfield model and is in contrast to the mathematically unjustifiable replica technique that has been hitherto used for this derivation. We show that the critical temperature for stability of a strong pattern is equal to its degree or multiplicity, when sum of the cubes of degrees of all stored patterns is negligible compared to the network size. In the case of a single strong pattern in the presence of simple patterns, when the ratio of the number of all stored patterns and the network size is a positive constant, we obtain the distribution of the overlaps of the patterns with the mean field and deduce that the storage capacity for retrieving a strong pattern exceeds that for retrieving a simple pattern by a multiplicative factor equal to the square of the degree of the strong pattern. This square law property provides justification for using strong patterns to model attachment types and behavioural prototypes in psychology and psychotherapy.
Bayesian Hierarchical Community Discovery,We propose an efficient Bayesian nonparametric model for discovering hierarchical community structure in social networks. Our model is a tree-structured mixture of potentially exponentially many stochastic blockmodels. We describe a family of greedy agglomerative model selection algorithms whose worst case scales quadratically in the number of vertices of the network, but independent of the number of communities. Our algorithms are two orders of magnitude faster than the infinite relational model, achieving comparable or better accuracy.
Stochastic Gradient Riemannian Langevin Dynamics on the Probability Simplex,In this paper we investigate the use of Langevin Monte Carlo methods on the probability simplex and propose a new method, Stochastic gradient Riemannian Langevin dynamics, which is simple to implement and can be applied online. We apply this method to latent Dirichlet allocation in an online setting, and demonstrate that it achieves substantial performance improvements to the state of the art online variational Bayesian methods.
Bayesian inference as iterated random functions with  applications to sequential inference in graphical models,We propose a general formalism of iterated random functions with semigroup property, under which exact and approximate Bayesian posterior updates can be viewed as specific instances. A convergence theory for iterated random functions is presented. As an application of the general theory we analyze convergence behaviors of exact and approximate message-passing algorithms that arise in a sequential change point detection problem formulated via a latent variable directed graphical model. The sequential inference algorithm and its supporting theory are  illustrated by simulated examples.
Adaptive dropout for training deep neural networks,Recently, it was shown that by dropping out hidden activities with a probability of 0.5, deep neural networks can perform very well. We describe a model in which a binary belief network is overlaid on a neural network and is used to decrease the information content of its hidden units by selectively setting activities to zero. This ''dropout network" can be trained jointly with the neural network by approximately computing local expectations of binary dropout variables, computing derivatives using back-propagation, and using stochastic gradient descent. Interestingly, experiments show that the learnt dropout network parameters recapitulate the neural network parameters, suggesting that a good dropout network regularizes activities according to magnitude. When evaluated on the MNIST and NORB datasets, we found our method can be used to achieve lower classification error rates than other feather learning methods, including standard dropout, denoising auto-encoders, and restricted Boltzmann machines. For example, our model achieves 5.8% error on the NORB test set, which is better than state-of-the-art results obtained using convolutional architectures.
Generalized Denoising Auto-Encoders as Generative Models,Recent work has shown how denoising and contractive autoencoders implicitly capture the structure of the data generating density, in the case where the corruption noise is Gaussian, the reconstruction error is the squared error, and the data is continuous-valued. This has led to various proposals for sampling from this implicitly learned density function, using Langevin and Metropolis-Hastings MCMC. However, it remained unclear how to connect the training procedure of regularized auto-encoders to the implicit estimation of the underlying data generating distribution when the data are discrete, or using other forms of corruption process and reconstruction errors. Another issue is the mathematical justification which is only valid in the limit of small corruption noise.  We propose here a different attack on the problem, which deals with all these issues: arbitrary (but noisy enough) corruption, arbitrary reconstruction loss (seen as a log-likelihood), handling both discrete and continuous-valued variables, and removing the bias due to non-infinitesimal corruption noise (or non-infinitesimal contractive penalty).
Graphical Models for Inference with Missing Data,We address the problem of deciding whether there exists a consistent estimator of a given relation Q, when data are missing not at random. We employ a formal representation called `Missingness Graphs' to explicitly portray the causal mechanisms responsible for missingness and to encode dependencies between these mechanisms and the variables being measured. Using this representation, we define the notion of \textit{recoverability} which ensures that, for a given missingness-graph $G$ and a given query $Q$ an algorithm exists such that in the limit of large samples, it produces an estimate of $Q$ \textit{as if} no data were missing. We further present conditions that the graph should satisfy in order for recoverability to hold and devise algorithms to detect the presence of these conditions.
Learning Efficient Random Maximum A-Posteriori Predictors with Non-Decomposable Loss Functions,In this work we develop efficient methods for learning random MAP predictors for structured label problems. In particular, we construct posterior distributions over perturbations that can be adjusted via stochastic gradient methods. We show that every smooth posterior distribution would suffice to define a smooth PAC-Bayesian risk bound suitable for gradient methods. In addition, we relate the posterior distributions to computational properties of the MAP predictors. We suggest multiplicative posteriors to learn super-modular potential functions that accompany specialized MAP predictors such as graph-cuts. We also describe label-augmented posterior models that can use efficient MAP approximations, such as those arising from linear program relaxations.
Annealing between distributions by averaging moments,Many powerful Monte Carlo techniques for estimating partition functions, such as annealed importance sampling (AIS), are based on sampling from a sequence of intermediate distributions which interpolate between a tractable initial distribution and an intractable target distribution. The near-universal practice is to use geometric averages of the initial and target distributions, but alternative paths can perform substantially better. We present a novel sequence of intermediate distributions for exponential families: averaging the moments of the initial and target distributions. We derive an asymptotically optimal piecewise linear schedule for the moments path and show that it performs at least as well as geometric averages with a linear schedule.  Moment averaging performs well empirically at estimating partition functions of restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs), which form the building blocks of many deep learning models, including Deep Belief Networks and Deep Boltzmann Machines.
Memory Limited, Streaming PCA,We consider streaming, one-pass principal component analysis (PCA), in the high-dimensional regime, with limited memory. Here, $p$-dimensional samples are presented sequentially, and the goal is to produce the $k$-dimensional subspace that best approximates these points. Standard algorithms require $O(p^2)$ memory; meanwhile no algorithm can do better than $O(kp)$ memory, since this is what the output itself requires. Memory (or storage) complexity is most meaningful when understood in the context of computational and sample complexity. Sample complexity for high-dimensional PCA is typically studied in the setting of the {\em spiked covariance model}, where $p$-dimensional points are generated from a population covariance equal to the identity (white noise) plus a low-dimensional perturbation (the spike) which is the signal to be recovered. It is now well-understood that the spike can be recovered when the number of samples, $n$, scales proportionally with the dimension, $p$. Yet, all algorithms that provably achieve this, have memory complexity $O(p^2)$. Meanwhile, algorithms with memory-complexity $O(kp)$ do not have provable bounds on sample complexity comparable to $p$. We present an algorithm that achieves both: it uses $O(kp)$ memory (meaning storage of any kind) and is able to compute the $k$-dimensional spike with $O(p \log p)$ sample-complexity -- the first algorithm of its kind. While our theoretical analysis focuses on the spiked covariance model, our simulations show that our algorithm is successful on much more general models for the data.
Firing rate predictions in optimal balanced networks,How are firing rates in a spiking network related to neural input, connectivity and network function? This is an important problem because firing rates are one of the most important measures of network activity, in both the study of neural computation and neural network dynamics. However, it is a difficult problem, because the spiking mechanism of individual neurons is highly non-linear, and these individual neurons interact strongly through connectivity. We develop a new technique for calculating firing rates in optimal balanced networks. These are particularly interesting networks because they provide an optimal spike-based signal representation while producing cortex-like spiking activity through a dynamic balance of excitation and inhibition. We can calculate firing rates by treating balanced network dynamics as an algorithm for optimizing signal representation. We identify this algorithm and then calculate firing rates by finding the solution to the algorithm. Our firing rate calculation relates network firing rates directly to network input, connectivity and function. This allows us to explain the function and underlying mechanism of tuning curves in a variety of systems.
Reconciling "priors'' & "priors" without prejudice?,There are two major routes to address linear inverse problems. Whereas regularization-based approaches build estimators as solutions of penalized regression optimization problems, Bayesian estimators rely on the posterior distribution of the unknown, given some assumed family of priors. While these may seem radically different approaches, recent results have shown that, in the context of additive white Gaussian denoising, the Bayesian conditional mean estimator is always the solution of a penalized regression problem. The contribution of this paper is twofold. First, we extend the additive white Gaussian denoising results to general linear inverse problems with colored Gaussian noise. Second, we characterize conditions under which the penalty function associated to the conditional mean estimator can satisfy certain popular properties such as convexity, separability, and smoothness. This sheds light on some tradeoff between computational efficiency and estimation accuracy in sparse regularization, and draws some connections between Bayesian estimation and proximal optimization.
Analyzing Hogwild Parallel Gaussian Gibbs Sampling,Sampling inference methods are computationally difficult to scale for many models in part because global dependencies can reduce opportunities for parallel computation.  Without strict conditional independence structure among variables, standard Gibbs sampling theory requires sample updates to be performed sequentially, even if dependence between most variables is not strong. Empirical work has shown that some models can be sampled effectively by going "Hogwild'' and simply running Gibbs updates in parallel with only periodic global communication, but the successes and limitations of such a strategy are not well understood.  As a step towards such an understanding, we study the Hogwild Gibbs sampling strategy in the context of Gaussian distributions. We develop a framework which provides convergence conditions and error bounds along with simple proofs and connections to methods in numerical linear algebra.  In particular, we show that if the Gaussian precision matrix is generalized diagonally dominant, then any Hogwild Gibbs sampler, with any update schedule or allocation of variables to processors, yields a stable sampling process with the correct sample mean.
How to Hedge an Option Against an Adversary: Black-Scholes Pricing is Minimax Optimal,We consider a popular problem in finance, option pricing, through the lens of an online learning game between Nature and an Investor.  In the Black-Scholes option pricing model from 1973, the Investor can continuously hedge the risk of an option by trading the underlying asset, assuming that the asset's price fluctuates according to Geometric Brownian Motion (GBM). We consider a worst-case model, in which Nature chooses a sequence of price fluctuations under a cumulative quadratic volatility constraint, and the Investor can make a sequence of hedging decisions. Our main result is to show that the value of our proposed game, which is the "regret'' of hedging strategy, converges to the Black-Scholes option price. We use significantly weaker assumptions than previous work---for instance, we allow large jumps in the asset price---and show that the Black-Scholes hedging strategy is near-optimal for the Investor even in this non-stochastic framework.
A Comparative Framework for Preconditioned Lasso Algorithms,The Lasso is a cornerstone of modern multivariate data analysis, yet its performance suffers in the common situation in which covariates are correlated. This limitation has led to a growing number of \emph{Preconditioned Lasso} algorithms that pre-multiply $X$ and $y$ by matrices $P_X$, $P_y$ prior to running the standard Lasso. A direct comparison of these and similar Lasso-style algorithms to the original Lasso is difficult because the performance of all of these methods depends critically on an auxiliary penalty parameter $\lambda$. In this paper we propose an agnostic, theoretical framework for comparing Preconditioned Lasso algorithms to the Lasso without having to choose $\lambda$. We apply our framework to three Preconditioned Lasso instances and highlight when they will outperform the Lasso. Additionally, our theory offers insights into the fragilities of these algorithms to which we provide partial solutions.
Summary Statistics for Partitionings and Feature Allocations,Infinite mixture models are commonly used for clustering. One can sample from the posterior of mixture assignments by Monte Carlo methods or find its maximum a posteriori solution by optimization. However, in some problems the posterior is diffuse and it is hard to interpret the sampled partitionings. In this paper, we introduce novel statistics based on block sizes for representing sample sets of partitionings and feature allocations. We develop an element-based definition of entropy to quantify segmentation among their elements. Then we propose a simple algorithm called entropy agglomeration (EA) to summarize and visualize this information. Experiments on various infinite mixture posteriors as well as a feature allocation dataset demonstrate that the proposed statistics are useful in practice.
Designed Measurements for Vector Count Data,We consider design of linear projection measurements for a vector Poisson signal model. The projections are performed on the vector Poisson rate, $X\in\mathbb{R}_+^n$, and the observed data are a vector of counts, $Y\in\mathbb{Z}_+^m$. The projection matrix is designed by maximizing mutual information between $Y$ and $X$, $I(Y;X)$. When there is a latent class label $C\in\{1,\dots,L\}$ associated with $X$, we consider the mutual information with respect to $Y$ and $C$, $I(Y;C)$. New analytic expressions for the gradient of $I(Y;X)$ and $I(Y;C)$ are presented, with gradient performed with respect to the measurement matrix. Connections are made to the more widely studied Gaussian measurement model. Example results are presented for compressive topic modeling of a document corpora (word counting), and hyperspectral compressive sensing for chemical classification (photon counting).
Dirty Statistical Models,We provide a unified framework for the high-dimensional analysis of superposition-structured or dirty statistical models: where the model parameters are a superposition of structurally constrained parameters. We allow for any number and types of structures, and any statistical model. We consider the general class of $M$-estimators that minimize the sum of any loss function, and an instance of what we call a hybrid regularization, that is the infimal convolution of weighted regularization functions, one for each structural component. We provide corollaries showcasing our unified framework for varied statistical models such as linear regression, multiple regression and principal component analysis, over varied superposition structures.
Online PCA for Contaminated Data,We consider the online Principal Component Analysis (PCA) for contaminated samples (containing outliers) which are revealed sequentially to the Principal Components (PCs) estimator. Due to their sensitiveness to outliers, previous online PCA algorithms fail in this case and their results can be arbitrarily bad. Here we propose the online robust PCA algorithm, which is able to improve the PCs estimation upon an initial one steadily, even when faced with a constant fraction of outliers. We show that the final result of the proposed online RPCA has an acceptable degradation from the optimum. Actually, under mild conditions, online RPCA achieves the maximal robustness with a $50\%$ breakdown point. Moreover, online RPCA is shown to be efficient for both storage and computation, since it need not re-explore the previous samples as in traditional robust PCA algorithms. This endows online RPCA with scalability for large scale data.
Eluder Dimension and the Sample Complexity of Optimistic Exploration,This paper considers the sample complexity of the multi-armed bandit with dependencies among the arms. Some of the most successful algorithms for this problem use the principle of optimism in the face of uncertainty to guide exploration. The clearest example of this is the class of upper confidence bound (UCB) algorithms, but recent work has shown that a simple posterior sampling algorithm, sometimes called Thompson sampling, also shares a close theoretical connection with optimistic approaches. In this paper, we develop a regret bound that holds for both classes of algorithms. This bound applies broadly and can be specialized to many model classes. It depends on a new notion we refer to as the eluder dimension, which measures the degree of dependence among action rewards. Compared to UCB algorithm regret bounds for specific model classes, our general bound matches the best available for linear models and is stronger than the best available for generalized linear models.
Locally Adaptive Bayesian Multivariate Time Series,In modeling multivariate time series, it is important to allow time-varying smoothness in the mean and covariance process. In particular, there may be certain time intervals exhibiting rapid changes and others in which changes are slow. If such locally adaptive smoothness is not accounted for, one can obtain misleading inferences and predictions, with over-smoothing across erratic time intervals and under-smoothing across times exhibiting slow variation. This can lead to miscalibration of predictive intervals, which can be substantially too narrow or wide depending on the time. We propose a continuous multivariate stochastic process for time series having locally varying smoothness in both the mean and covariance matrix. This process is constructed utilizing latent dictionary functions in time, which are given nested Gaussian process priors and linearly related to the observed data through a sparse mapping. Using a differential equation representation, we bypass usual computational bottlenecks in obtaining MCMC and online algorithms for approximate Bayesian inference. The performance is assessed in simulations and illustrated in a financial application.
Multilinear Dynamical Systems for Tensor Time Series,Many scientific data occur as sequences of multidimensional arrays called tensors.  How can hidden, evolving trends in such data be extracted while preserving the tensor structure?  The model that is traditionally used is the linear dynamical system (LDS), which treats the observation at each time slice as a vector.  In this paper, we propose the multilinear dynamical system (MLDS) for modeling tensor time series and an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm to estimate the parameters.  The MLDS models each time slice of the tensor time series as the multilinear projection of a corresponding member of a sequence of latent, low-dimensional tensors.  Compared to the LDS with an equal number of parameters, the MLDS achieves higher prediction accuracy and marginal likelihood for both simulated and real datasets.
q-OCSVM: A q-Quantile Estimator for High-Dimensional Distributions,In this paper we introduce a novel method that can efficiently estimate a family of hierarchical dense sets in high-dimensional distributions. Our method can be regarded as a natural extension of the one-class SVM (OCSVM) algorithm that finds multiple parallel separating hyperplanes in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. We call our method q-OCSVM, as it can be used to estimate $q$ quantiles of a high-dimensional distribution. For this purpose, we introduce a new global convex optimization program that finds all estimated sets at once and show that it can be solved efficiently. We prove the correctness of our method and present empirical results that demonstrate its superiority over existing methods.
Latent Maximum Margin Clustering,We present a maximum margin framework that clusters data using latent variables. Using latent representations enables our framework to model unobserved information embedded in the data. We implement our idea by large margin learning, and develop an alternating descent algorithm to effectively solve the resultant non-convex optimization problem. We instantiate our latent maximum margin clustering framework with tag-based video clustering tasks, where each video is represented by a latent tag model describing the presence or absence of video tags. Experimental results obtained on three standard datasets show that the proposed method outperforms non-latent maximum margin clustering as well as conventional clustering approaches.
A Kernel Test for Three-Variable Interactions,We introduce kernel nonparametric tests for Lancaster three-variable interaction and for total independence, using embeddings of signed measures into a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. The resulting test statistics are straightforward to compute, and are used in powerful three-variable interaction tests, which are consistent against all alternatives for a large family of reproducing kernels. We show the Lancaster test to be sensitive to cases where two independent causes individually have weak influence on a third dependent variable, but their combined effect has a strong influence. This makes the Lancaster test especially suited to finding structure in directed graphical models, where it outperforms competing nonparametric tests in detecting such V-structures.
Non-strongly-convex smooth stochastic approximation with convergence rate O(1/n),We consider the stochastic approximation problem where a convex function has to be minimized, given only the knowledge of unbiased estimates of its gradients at certain points, a framework which includes machine learning methods based on the minimization of the empirical risk. We focus on problems without strong convexity, for which all previously known algorithms achieve a convergence rate for function values of $O(1/\sqrt{n})$. We consider and analyze two algorithms that achieve a rate of $O(1/n)$ for classical   supervised learning problems. For least-squares regression, we show that   averaged stochastic gradient descent with constant step-size achieves the desired rate.  For logistic regression, this is achieved by a simple novel stochastic gradient algorithm that (a) constructs successive local quadratic approximations of the loss functions, while (b) preserving the same running time complexity as stochastic gradient descent. For these algorithms, we provide a non-asymptotic analysis of the generalization error (in expectation, and also in high probability for least-squares), and run extensive experiments showing that they often outperform existing approaches.
Rapid Distance-Based Outlier Detection via Sampling,Distance-based approaches to outlier detection are popular in data mining, as they do not require to model the underlying probability distribution, which is particularly challenging for high-dimensional data. We present an empirical comparison of various approaches to distance-based outlier detection across a large number of datasets. We report the surprising observation that a simple, sampling-based scheme outperforms state-of-the-art techniques in terms of both efficiency and effectiveness. To better understand this phenomenon, we provide a theoretical analysis why the sampling-based approach outperforms alternative methods based on k-nearest neighbor search.
Stochastic Majorization-Minimization Algorithms for Large-Scale Optimization,Majorization-minimization algorithms consist of iteratively minimizing a majorizing surrogate of an objective function. Because of its simplicity and its wide applicability, this principle has been very popular in statistics and in signal processing. In this paper, we intend to make this principle scalable. We introduce a stochastic majorization-minimization scheme which is able to deal with large-scale or possibly infinite data sets. When applied to convex optimization problems under suitable assumptions, we show that it achieves an expected convergence rate of $O(1/\sqrt{n})$ after~$n$ iterations, and of $O(1/n)$ for strongly convex functions. Equally important, our scheme almost surely converges to stationary points for a large class of non-convex problems. We develop several efficient algorithms based on our framework. First, we propose a new stochastic proximal gradient method, which experimentally matches state-of-the-art solvers for large-scale $\ell_1$-logistic regression. Second, we develop an online DC programming algorithm for non-convex sparse estimation. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our technique for solving large-scale structured matrix factorization problems.
Variational Inference for Mahalanobis Distance Metrics in Gaussian Process Regression,We introduce a novel variational method that allows to approximately integrate out kernel hyperparameters, such as length-scales, in Gaussian process regression. This approach consists of a novel variant of the variational framework that has been recently developed for the Gaussian process latent variable model which additionally makes use of a standardised representation of the Gaussian process. We consider this technique for learning Mahalanobis distance metrics in a Gaussian process regression setting and provide experimental evaluations and comparisons with existing methods by considering  datasets with high-dimensional inputs.
Fantope Projection and Selection: A near-optimal convex relaxation of sparse PCA,We propose a novel convex relaxation of sparse principal subspace estimation based on the convex hull of rank-$d$ projection matrices (the Fantope). The convex problem can be solved efficiently using alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM). We establish a near-optimal convergence rate, in terms of the sparsity, ambient dimension, and sample size, for estimation of the principal subspace of a general covariance matrix without assuming the spiked covariance model. In the special case of $d=1$, our result implies the near- optimality of DSPCA even when the solution is not rank 1. We also provide a general theoretical framework for analyzing the statistical  properties of the method for arbitrary input matrices that extends the  applicability and provable guarantees to a wide array of settings.  We  demonstrate this with an application to Kendall's tau correlation matrices  and transelliptical component analysis.
On the Relationship Between Binary Classification, Bipartite Ranking, and Binary Class Probability Estimation,We investigate the relationship between three fundamental problems in machine learning: binary classification, bipartite ranking, and binary class probability estimation (CPE). It is known that a good binary CPE model can be used to obtain a good binary classification model (by thresholding at 0.5), and also to obtain a good bipartite ranking model (by using the CPE model directly as a ranking model); it is also known that a binary classification model does not necessarily yield a CPE model. However, not much is known about other directions. Formally, these relationships involve regret transfer bounds. In this paper, we introduce the notion of weak regret transfer bounds, where the mapping needed to transform a model from one problem to another depends on the underlying probability distribution (and in practice, must be estimated from data). We then show that, in this weaker sense, a good bipartite ranking model can be used to construct a good classification model (by thresholding at a suitable point), and more surprisingly, also to construct a good binary CPE model (by calibrating the scores of the ranking model).
Regularized Spectral Clustering under the Degree-Corrected Stochastic Blockmodel,Spectral clustering is a fast and popular algorithm for finding clusters in networks. Recently, Chaudhuri et al. and Amini et al. proposed variations on the algorithm that artificially inflate the node degrees for improved statistical performance.  The current paper extends the previous theoretical results to the more canonical spectral clustering algorithm in a way that removes any assumption on the minimum degree and  provides guidance on the choice of tuning parameter.  Moreover, our results show how the "star shape" in the eigenvectors--which are consistently observed in empirical networks--can be explained by the Degree-Corrected Stochastic Blockmodel and the Extended Planted Partition model, two statistical model that allow for highly heterogeneous degrees.  Throughout, the paper characterizes and justifies several of the variations of the spectral clustering algorithm in terms of these models.
Bayesian Inference and Learning in Gaussian Process State-Space Models with Particle MCMC,State-space models are successfully used in many areas of science, engineering and economics to model time series and dynamical systems. We present a fully Bayesian approach to inference and learning in nonlinear nonparametric state-space models. We place a Gaussian process prior over the transition dynamics, resulting in a flexible model able to capture complex dynamical phenomena. However, to enable efficient inference, we marginalize over the dynamics of the model and instead infer directly the joint smoothing distribution through the use of specially tailored Particle Markov Chain Monte Carlo samplers. Once an approximation of the smoothing distribution is computed, the state transition predictive distribution can be formulated analytically. We make use of sparse Gaussian process models to greatly reduce the computational complexity of the approach.
Dynamic Clustering via Asymptotics of the Dependent Dirichlet Process Mixture,This paper presents a novel algorithm, based upon the dependent Dirichlet process mixture model (DDPMM), for clustering batch-sequential data containing an unknown number of evolving clusters. The algorithm is derived via a low-variance asymptotic analysis of the Gibbs sampling algorithm for the DDPMM, and provides a hard clustering with convergence guarantees similar to those of the k-means algorithm. Empirical results from a synthetic test with moving Gaussian clusters and a test with real ADS-B aircraft trajectory data demonstrate that the algorithm requires orders of magnitude less computational time than contemporary probabilistic and hard clustering algorithms, while providing higher accuracy on the examined datasets.
Learning with Invariance via Linear Functionals on Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space,Incorporating invariance information is important for many learning problems. To exploit invariances, most existing methods resort to approximations that either lead to expensive optimization problems such as semi-definite programming, or rely on separation oracles to retain tractability.  Some methods further limit the space of functions and settle for non-convex models.  In this paper, we propose a framework for learning in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces (RKHS) using local invariances that explicitly characterize the behavior of the target function around data instances.  These invariances are \emph{compactly} encoded as linear functionals whose value are penalized by some loss function.  Based on a representer theorem that we establish, our formulation can be efficiently optimized via a convex program. For the representer theorem to hold, the linear functionals are required to be bounded in the RKHS, and we show that this is true for a variety of commonly used RKHS and invariances. Experiments on learning with unlabeled data and transform invariances show that the proposed method yields better or similar results compared with the state of the art.
On Flat versus Hierarchical Classification in Large-Scale Taxonomies,We study in this paper flat and hierarchical classification strategies in the context of large-scale taxonomies. To this end, we first propose a multiclass, hierarchical data dependent bound on the generalization error of classifiers deployed in large-scale taxonomies. This bound provides an explanation to several empirical results reported in the literature, related to the performance of flat and hierarchical classifiers. We then introduce another type of bounds targeting the approximation error of a family of classifiers, and derive from it features used in a meta-classifier to decide which nodes to prune (or flatten) in a large-scale taxonomy. We finally illustrate the theoretical developments through several experiments conducted on two widely used taxonomies.
Trading Computation for Communication: Distributed Stochastic Dual Coordinate Ascent,We present and study a distributed optimization algorithm by employing  a stochastic dual coordinate ascent method. Stochastic dual coordinate ascent methods enjoy strong theoretical guarantees and often have better performances than stochastic gradient descent methods in optimizing regularized loss minimization problems. It still lacks of efforts in studying them in a distributed framework. We make a progress along the line by presenting a distributed stochastic dual coordinate ascent algorithm in a star network, with an analysis of the tradeoff between  computation and  communication. We verify  our analysis by experiments on real data sets. Moreover, we compare the proposed algorithm with distributed stochastic gradient descent methods and distributed alternating direction methods of multipliers for optimizing SVMs in the same distributed framework, and observe competitive performances.
New Subsampling Algorithms for Fast Least Squares Regression,We address the problem of fast estimation of ordinary least squares (OLS) from large amounts of data ($n \gg p$). We propose three methods which solve the big data problem by subsampling the covariance matrix using either a single or two stage estimation. All three run in the order of size of input i.e. O($np$) and our best method, {\it Uluru}, gives an error bound of $O(\sqrt{p/n})$ which is independent of the amount of subsampling as long as it is above a threshold.  We provide theoretical bounds for our algorithms in the fixed design (with Randomized Hadamard preconditioning) as well as sub-Gaussian random design setting. We also compare the performance of our methods on synthetic and real-world datasets and show that if observations are i.i.d., sub-Gaussian then one can directly subsample without the expensive Randomized Hadamard preconditioning without loss of accuracy.
It is all in the noise: Efficient multi-task Gaussian process inference with structured residuals,Multi-task prediction models are widely being used to couple regressors or classification models by sharing information across related tasks. A common pitfall of these models is that they assume that the output tasks are independent conditioned on the inputs. Here, we propose a multi-task Gaussian process approach to model both the relatedness between regressors as well as the task correlations in the residuals, in order to more accurately identify true sharing between regressors. The resulting Gaussian model has a covariance term that is the sum of Kronecker products, for which efficient parameter inference and out of sample prediction are feasible. On both synthetic examples and applications to phenotype prediction in genetics, we find substantial benefits of modeling structured noise compared to established alternatives.
Moment-based Uniform Deviation Bounds for $k$-means and Friends,Suppose $k$ centers are fit to $m$ points by heuristically minimizing the $k$-means cost; what is the corresponding fit over the source distribution?  This question is resolved here for distributions with $p\geq 4$ bounded moments; in particular, the difference between the sample cost and distribution cost decays with $m$ and $p$ as $m^{\min\{-1/4, -1/2+2/p\}}$.  The essential technical contribution is a mechanism to uniformly control deviations in the face of unbounded parameter sets, cost functions, and source distributions.  To further demonstrate this mechanism, a soft clustering variant of $k$-means cost is also considered, namely the log likelihood of a Gaussian mixture, subject to the constraint that all covariance matrices have bounded spectrum.  Lastly, a rate with refined constants is provided for $k$-means instances possessing some cluster structure.
Learning Multiple Models via Regularized Weighting,We consider the general problem of Multiple Model Learning (MML) from data, from the statistical and algorithmic perspectives; this problem includes clustering, multiple regression and subspace clustering as special cases. A common approach to solving new MML problems is to generalize Lloyd's algorithm  for clustering (or Expectation-Maximization for soft clustering). However this approach is unfortunately sensitive to outliers and large noise: a single exceptional point may take over one of the models.   We propose a different general formulation that seeks for each model a distribution over data points; the weights are regularized to be sufficiently spread out. This enhances robustness by making assumptions on class balance. We further provide generalization bounds and explain how the new iterations may be computed efficiently. We demonstrate the robustness benefits of our approach with some experimental results and prove for the important  case of clustering that our approach has a non-trivial breakdown point, i.e., is guaranteed to be robust to a fixed percentage of adversarial unbounded outliers.
Scoring Workers in Crowdsourcing: How Many Control Questions are Enough?,We study the problem of estimating continuous quantities, such as prices, probabilities, and point spreads, using a crowdsourcing approach.  A challenging aspect of combining the crowd's answers is that workers' reliabilities and biases are usually unknown and highly diverse.  Control items with known answers can be used to evaluate workers' performance, and hence improve the combined results on the target items with unknown answers.  This raises the problem of how many control items to use when the total number of items each workers can answer is limited: more control items evaluates the workers better, but leaves fewer resources for the target items that are of direct interest, and vice versa. We give theoretical results for this problem under different scenarios, and provide a simple rule of thumb for crowdsourcing practitioners.  As a byproduct, we also provide theoretical analysis of the accuracy of different consensus methods.
Sparse Overlapping Sets Lasso for Multitask Learning and its Application to fMRI Analysis,Multitask learning can be effective when features useful in one task are also useful for other tasks, and the group lasso is a standard method for selecting a common subset of features. In this paper, we are interested in a less restrictive form of multitask learning, wherein (1) the available features can be organized into subsets according to a notion of similarity and (2) features useful in one task are similar, but not necessarily identical, to the features best suited for other tasks. The main contribution of this paper is a new procedure called {\em Sparse Overlapping Sets (SOS) lasso}, a convex optimization that automatically selects similar features for related learning tasks.  Error bounds are derived for SOSlasso and its consistency is established for squared error loss. In particular,  SOSlasso is motivated by multi-subject fMRI studies in which functional activity is classified using brain voxels as features. Experiments with real and synthetic data demonstrate the advantages of SOSlasso compared to the lasso and group lasso.
k-Prototype Learning for 3D Rigid Structures,In this paper, we study the following new variant of prototype learning, called {\em $k$-prototype learning problem for 3D rigid structures}: Given a set of 3D rigid structures, find a set of $k$ rigid structures so that each of them is a prototype for a cluster of the given rigid structures and the total cost (or dissimilarity) is minimized. Prototype learning is a core problem in machine learning and has a wide range of applications in many areas. Existing results on this problem have mainly focused on the graph domain. In this paper, we present the first algorithm for learning multiple prototypes from 3D rigid structures. Our result is based on a number of new insights to rigid structures alignment, clustering, and prototype reconstruction, and is practically efficient with quality guarantee. We validate our approach using two type of data sets, random data and biological data of chromosome territories. Experiments suggest that our approach can effectively learn prototypes in both types of data.
Submodular Optimization with Submodular Cover and Submodular Knapsack Constraints,We investigate two new optimization problems  minimizing a submodular function subject to a submodular lower bound constraint (submodular cover) and maximizing a submodular function subject to a submodular upper bound constraint (submodular knapsack). We are motivated by a number of real-world applications in machine learning including sensor placement and data subset selection, which require maximizing a certain submodular function (like coverage or diversity) while simultaneously minimizing another (like cooperative cost). These problems are often posed as minimizing the difference between submodular functions [9, 23] which is in the worst case inapproximable. We show, however, that by phrasing these problems as constrained optimization, which is more natural for many applications, we achieve a number of bounded approximation guarantees. We also show that both these problems are closely related and, an approximation algorithm solving one can be used to obtain an approximation guarantee for the other. We provide hardness results for both problems thus showing that our approximation factors are tight up to log-factors. Finally, we empirically demonstrate the performance and good scalability properties of our algorithms.
Using multiple samples to learn mixture models,In the mixture models problem it is assumed that there are $K$ distributions $\theta_{1},\ldots,\theta_{K}$ and one gets to observe a sample from a mixture of these distributions with unknown coefficients. The goal is to associate instances with their generating distributions, or to identify the parameters of the hidden distributions. In this work we make the assumption that we have access to several samples drawn from the same $K$ underlying distributions, but with different mixing weights. As with topic modeling, having multiple samples is often a reasonable assumption.  Instead of pooling the data into one sample, we prove that it is possible to use the differences between the samples to better recover the underlying structure. We present algorithms that recover the underlying structure under milder assumptions than the current state of art when either the dimensionality or the separation is high.  The methods, when applied to topic modeling, allow generalization to words not present in the training data.
One-shot learning by inverting a compositional causal process,People can learn a new visual class from just one example, yet machine learning algorithms typically require hundreds or thousands of examples to tackle the same problems. Here we present a Hierarchical Bayesian model based on compositionality and causality that can learn a wide range of natural (although simple) visual concepts, generalizing in human-like ways from just one image. We evaluated performance on a challenging one-shot classification task, where our model achieved a human-level error rate while substantially outperforming two deep learning models. We also used a "visual Turing test" to show that our model produces human-like performance on other conceptual tasks, including generating new examples and parsing.
Error-Minimizing Estimates and Universal Entry-Wise Error Bounds for Low-Rank Matrix Completion,We propose a general framework for reconstructing and denoising single entries of incomplete and noisy entries. We describe: effective algorithms for deciding if and entry can be reconstructed and, if so, for reconstructing and denoising it; and a priori bounds on the error of each entry, individually.  In the noiseless case our algorithm is exact. For rank-one matrices, the new algorithm is fast, admits a highly-parallel implementation, and produces an error minimizing estimate that is qualitatively close to our theoretical and the state-of-the-art Nuclear Norm and OptSpace methods.
Gaussian Process Conditional Copulas with Applications to Financial Time Series,The estimation of dependencies between multiple variables is a central problem in the analysis of financial time series. A common approach is to express these dependencies in terms of a copula function. Typically the copula function is assumed to be constant but this may be innacurate when there are covariates that could have a large influence on the dependence structure of the data. To account for this, a Bayesian framework for the estimation of conditional copulas is proposed. In this framework the parameters of a copula are non-linearly related to some arbitrary conditioning variables. We evaluate the ability of our method to predict time-varying dependencies on several equities and currencies and observe consistent performance gains compared to static copula models and other time-varying copula methods.
Bayesian Inference and Online Experimental Design for Mapping Neural Microcircuits,We develop an inference and optimal design procedure for recovering synaptic weights in neural microcircuits. We base our procedure on data from an experiment in which populations of putative presynaptic neurons can be stimulated while a subthreshold recording is made from a single postsynaptic neuron. We present a realistic statistical model which accounts for the main sources of variability in this experiment and allows for large amounts of information about the biological system to be incorporated if available. We then present a simpler model to facilitate online experimental design which entails the use of efficient Bayesian inference. The optimized approach results in equal quality posterior estimates of the synaptic weights in roughly half the number of experimental trials under experimentally realistic conditions, tested on synthetic data generated from the full model.
B-test: A Non-parametric, Low Variance Kernel Two-sample Test,We propose a family of maximum mean discrepancy (MMD) kernel two-sample tests that have low sample complexity and are consistent. The test has a hyperparameter that allows one to control the tradeoff between sample complexity and computational time. Our family of tests, which we denote as B-tests, is both computationally and statistically efficient, combining favorable properties of previously proposed MMD two-sample tests.  It does so by better leveraging samples to produce low variance estimates in the finite sample case, while avoiding a quadratic number of kernel evaluations and complex null-hypothesis approximation as would be required by tests relying on one sample U-statistics. The B-test uses a smaller than quadratic number of kernel evaluations and avoids completely the computational burden of complex null-hypothesis approximation while maintaining consistency and probabilistically conservative thresholds on Type I error. Finally, recent results of combining multiple kernels transfer seamlessly to our hypothesis test, allowing a further increase in discriminative power and decrease in sample complexity.
Information-theoretic lower bounds for distributed statistical estimation with communication constraints,We establish minimax risk lower bounds for distributed statistical estimation given a budget $B$ of the total number of bits that may be communicated. Such lower bounds in turn reveal the minimum amount of communication required by any procedure to achieve the classical optimal rate for statistical estimation. We study two classes of protocols in which machines send messages either independently or interactively. The lower bounds are established for a variety of problems, from estimating the mean of a population to estimating parameters in linear regression or binary classification.
The Randomized Dependence Coefficient,We introduce the Randomized Dependence Coefficient (RDC), a measure of non-linear dependence between random variables of arbitrary dimension based on the Hirschfeld-Gebelein-Rnyi Maximum Correlation Coefficient. RDC is defined in terms of correlation of random non-linear copula projections; it is invariant with respect to marginal distribution transformations, has low computational cost and is easy to implement: just five lines of R code, included at the end of the paper.
Efficient Optimization for Sparse Gaussian Process Regression,We propose an efficient discrete optimization algorithm for selecting a subset of training data to induce sparsity for Gaussian process regression. The algorithm estimates this inducing set and the hyperparameters using a single objective, either the marginal likelihood or a variational free energy. The space and time complexity are linear in the training set size, and the algorithm can be applied to large regression problems on discrete or continuous domains. Empirical evaluation shows state-of-art performance in the discrete case and competitive results in the continuous case.
Learning Kernels Using Local Rademacher Complexity,We use the notion of local Rademacher complexity to design new algorithms for learning kernels. Our algorithms thereby benefit from the sharper learning bounds based on that notion which, under certain general conditions, guarantee a faster convergence rate.  We devise two new learning kernel algorithms: one based on a convex optimization problem for which we give an efficient solution using existing learning kernel techniques, and another one that can be formulated as a DC-programming problem for which we describe a solution in detail. We also report the results of experiments with both algorithms in both binary and multi-class classification tasks.
Linear decision rule as aspiration for simple decision heuristics,Many attempts to understand the success of simple decision heuristics have examined heuristics as an approximation to a linear decision rule. This research has identified three environmental structures that aid heuristics: dominance, cumulative dominance, and noncompensatoriness. Here, we further develop these ideas and examine their empirical relevance in 51 natural environments. We find that all three structures are prevalent, making it possible for some simple rules to reach the accuracy levels of the linear decision rule using less information.
One-shot learning and big data with n=2,We model a "one-shot learning" situation, where very few (scalar) observations $y_1,...,y_n$ are available. Associated with each observation $y_i$ is a very high-dimensional vector $x_i$, which provides context for $y_i$ and enables us to predict subsequent observations, given their own context. One of the salient features of our analysis is that the problems studied here are easier when the dimension of $x_i$ is large; in other words, prediction becomes easier when more context is provided. The proposed methodology is a variant of principal component regression (PCR). Our rigorous analysis sheds new light on PCR. For instance, we show that classical PCR estimators may be inconsistent in the specified setting, unless they are multiplied by a scalar $c > 1$; that is, unless the classical estimator is expanded. This expansion phenomenon appears to be somewhat novel and contrasts with shrinkage methods ($c < 1$), which are far more common in big data analyses.
Which Space Partitioning Tree to Use for Search?,We consider the task of nearest-neighbor search with the class of binary-space-partitioning trees, which includes kd-trees, principal axis trees and random projection trees, and try to rigorously answer the question "which tree to use for nearest-neighbor search?'' To this end, we present the theoretical results which imply that trees with better vector quantization performance have better search performance guarantees. We also explore another factor affecting the search performance -- margins of the partitions in these trees. We demonstrate, both theoretically and empirically, that large margin partitions can improve the search performance of a space-partitioning tree.
From Bandits to Experts: A Tale of Domination and Independence,We consider the partial observability model for multi-armed bandits, introduced by Mannor and Shamir (2011). Our main result is a characterization of regret in the directed observability model in terms of the dominating and independence numbers of the observability graph. We also show that in the undirected case, the learner can achieve optimal regret without even accessing the observability graph before selecting an action. Both results are shown using variants of the Exp3 algorithm operating on the observability graph in a time-efficient manner.
Sign Cauchy Projections and Chi-Square Kernel,The method of Cauchy random projections is popular  for computing the $l_1$ distance in high dimension. In this paper, we propose to use only the signs of the projected data and show that the  probability of collision (i.e., when the two signs differ) can be accurately approximated as a function of the chi-square ($\chi^2$) similarity, which is a popular  measure for nonnegative data (e.g., when features are generated from histograms as common in text and vision applications). Our experiments   confirm that this method of sign Cauchy random projections is promising for large-scale  learning applications. Furthermore, we extend the idea to sign $\alpha$-stable random projections and derive a bound of the collision probability.
Online Robust PCA via Stochastic Optimization,Robust PCA methods are typically based on batch optimization and have to load all the samples into memory. This prevents them from efficiently processing big data. In this paper, we develop  an Online Robust Principal Component Analysis (OR-PCA) that processes one sample per time instance and hence its memory cost is independent of the data size,  significantly enhancing the computation and storage efficiency. The proposed method is based on stochastic optimization of an equivalent reformulation of the batch RPCA method. Indeed, we show that OR-PCA provides a sequence of subspace estimations converging to the optimum of its batch counterpart and hence is provably robust  to sparse corruption. Moreover, OR-PCA can naturally be applied for tracking dynamic subspace. Comprehensive simulations on subspace recovering and tracking demonstrate the robustness and efficiency advantages of the OR-PCA over online PCA and batch RPCA methods.
Density estimation from unweighted k-nearest neighbor graphs: a roadmap,Consider an unweighted k-nearest neighbor graph   on n points that have been sampled i.i.d. from some unknown density p on R^d. We prove how one can estimate the density p just from the unweighted adjacency matrix of the graph, without knowing the points themselves or their distance or similarity scores. The key insights are that local differences in link numbers can be used to estimate some local function of p, and that integrating this function along shortest paths leads to an estimate of the underlying density.
Message Passing Inference with Chemical Reaction Networks,Recent work on molecular programming has explored new possibilities for computational abstractions with biomolecules, including logic gates, neural networks, and linear systems.  In the future such abstractions might enable nanoscale devices that can sense and control the world at a molecular scale.  Just as in macroscale robotics, it is critical that such devices can learn about their environment and reason under uncertainty. At this small scale, systems are typically modeled as chemical reaction networks. In this work, we develop a procedure that can take arbitrary probabilistic graphical models, represented as factor graphs over discrete random variables, and compile them into chemical reaction networks that implement inference.  In particular, we show that marginalization based on sum-product message passing can be implemented in terms of reactions between chemical species whose concentrations represent probabilities.  We show algebraically that the steady state concentration of these species correspond to the marginal distributions of the random variables in the graph and validate the results in simulations.  As with standard sum-product inference, this procedure yields exact results for tree-structured graphs, and approximate solutions for loopy graphs.
Adaptivity to Local Smoothness and Dimension in Kernel Regression,We present the first result for kernel regression where the procedure adapts locally at a point $x$ to both the unknown local dimension of the metric and the unknown H\"{o}lder-continuity of the regression function at $x$. The result holds with high probability simultaneously at all points $x$ in a metric space of unknown structure.
Multi-Task Bayesian Optimization,Bayesian optimization has recently been proposed as a framework for automatically tuning the hyperparameters of machine learning models and has been shown to yield state-of-the-art performance with impressive ease and efficiency. In this paper, we explore whether it is possible to transfer the knowledge gained from previous optimizations to new tasks in order to find optimal hyperparameter settings more efficiently. Our approach is based on extending multi-task Gaussian processes to the framework of Bayesian optimization. We show that this method significantly speeds up the optimization process when compared to the standard single-task approach. We further propose a straightforward extension of our algorithm in order to jointly minimize the average error across multiple tasks and demonstrate how this can be used to greatly speed up $k$-fold cross-validation. Lastly, our most significant contribution is an adaptation of a recently proposed acquisition function, entropy search, to the cost-sensitive and multi-task settings. We demonstrate the utility of this new acquisition function by utilizing a small dataset in order to explore hyperparameter settings for a large dataset. Our algorithm dynamically chooses which dataset to query in order to yield the most information per unit cost.
Two-Target Algorithms  for Infinite-Armed   Bandits with Bernoulli Rewards,We consider an infinite-armed bandit problem with Bernoulli rewards. The mean rewards are independent,   uniformly distributed over $[0,1]$. Rewards 0 and  1 are referred to as a success and a failure, respectively. We propose a novel algorithm where the decision to exploit  any arm is based on two successive  targets, namely, the total number of successes until the first failure and the first $m$ failures, respectively, where $m$ is a fixed parameter. This two-target algorithm  achieves a long-term average regret in $\sqrt{2n}$ for  a large parameter $m$ and a known time horizon $n$. This regret is optimal and  strictly less than the regret  achieved by the best known algorithms, which is in $2\sqrt{n}$. The results are extended to any mean-reward distribution whose support contains 1 and to unknown  time horizons. Numerical experiments show the performance of the algorithm for finite time horizons.
Fast Algorithms for Gaussian Noise Invariant Independent Component Analysis,The performance of standard algorithms for Independent Component Analysis quickly deteriorates under the addition of Gaussian noise. This is partially due to a common first step that typically consists of whitening, i.e., applying Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and rescaling the components to have identity covariance, which is not invariant under Gaussian noise.   In our paper we develop the first practical algorithm for Independent Component Analysis that is provably invariant under Gaussian noise. The two main contributions of this work are as follows: 1. We develop and implement a more efficient version of a Gaussian noise invariant decorrelation (quasi-orthogonalization) algorithm using Hessians of the cumulant functions. 2. We propose a very simple and efficient fixed-point GI-ICA (Gradient Iteration ICA) algorithm, which is compatible with quasi-orthogonalization, as well as with the usual PCA-based whitening in the noiseless case.  The algorithm is based on a special form of gradient iteration (different from gradient descent).   We provide an analysis of our algorithm demonstrating fast convergence following from the basic properties of cumulants. We also present a number of experimental comparisons with the existing methods, showing superior results on noisy data and very competitive performance in the noiseless case.
A Latent Source Model for Nonparametric Time Series Classification,For classifying time series, a nearest-neighbor approach is widely used in practice with performance often competitive with or better than more elaborate methods such as neural networks, decision trees, and support vector machines. We develop theoretical justification for the effectiveness of nearest-neighbor-like classification of time series. Our guiding hypothesis is that in many applications, such as forecasting which topics will become trends on Twitter, there aren't actually that many prototypical time series to begin with, relative to the number of time series we have access to, e.g., topics become trends on Twitter only in a few distinct manners whereas we can collect massive amounts of Twitter data. To operationalize this hypothesis, we propose a latent source model for time series, which naturally leads to a "weighted majority voting" classification rule that can be approximated by a nearest-neighbor classifier. We establish nonasymptotic performance guarantees of both weighted majority voting and nearest-neighbor classification under our model accounting for how much of the time series we observe and the model complexity. Experimental results on synthetic data show weighted majority voting achieving the same misclassification rate as nearest-neighbor classification while observing less of the time series. We then use weighted majority to forecast which news topics on Twitter become trends, where we are able to detect such "trending topics" in advance of Twitter 79% of the time, with a mean early advantage of 1 hour and 26 minutes, a true positive rate of 95%, and a false positive rate of 4%.
Spike train entropy-rate estimation using hierarchical Dirichlet process priors,Entropy rate quantifies the amount of disorder in a stochastic process.  For spiking neurons, the entropy rate places an upper bound on the rate at which the spike train can convey stimulus information, and a large literature has focused on the problem of estimating entropy rate from spike train data.  Here we present Bayes Least Squares and Empirical Bayesian entropy rate estimators for binary spike trains using Hierarchical Dirichlet Process (HDP) priors.  Our estimator leverages the fact that the entropy rate of an ergodic Markov Chain with known transition probabilities can be calculated analytically, and many stochastic processes that are non-Markovian can still be well approximated by Markov processes of sufficient depth.  Choosing an appropriate depth of Markov model presents challenges due to possibly long time dependencies and short data sequences: a deeper model can better account for long time-dependencies, but is more difficult to infer from limited data. Our approach mitigates this difficulty by using a hierarchical prior to share statistical power across Markov chains of different depths.   We present both a fully Bayesian and empirical Bayes entropy rate estimator based on this model, and demonstrate their performance on simulated and real neural spike train data.
Online Variational Approximations to non-Exponential Family Change Point Models: With Application to Radar Tracking,The Bayesian online change point detection (BOCPD) algorithm provides an efficient way to do exact inference when the parameters of an underlying model may suddenly change over time. BOCPD requires computation of the underlying model's posterior predictives, which can only be computed online in $O(1)$ time and memory for exponential family models. We develop variational approximations to the posterior on change point times (formulated as run lengths) for efficient inference when the underlying model is not in the exponential family, and does not have tractable posterior predictive distributions. In doing so, we develop improvements to online variational inference. We apply our methodology to a tracking problem using radar data with a signal-to-noise feature that is Rice distributed. We also develop a variational method for inferring the parameters of the (non-exponential family) Rice distribution.
Adaptive Market Making via Online Learning,We consider the design of strategies for \emph{market making} in a market like a stock, commodity, or currency exchange. In order to obtain profit guarantees for a market maker one typically requires very particular stochastic assumptions on the sequence of price fluctuations of the asset in question. We propose a class of spread-based market making strategies whose performance can be controlled even under worst-case (adversarial) settings. We prove structural properties of these strategies which allows us to design a master algorithm which obtains low regret relative to the best such strategy in hindsight. We run a set of experiments showing favorable performance on real-world price data.
Small-Variance Asymptotics for Hidden Markov Models,Small-variance asymptotics provide an emerging technique for obtaining scalable combinatorial algorithms from rich probabilistic models. We present a small-variance asymptotic analysis of the Hidden Markov Model and its infinite-state Bayesian nonparametric extension. Starting with the standard HMM, we first derive a hard inference algorithm analogous to k-means that arises when particular variances in the model tend to zero. This analysis is then extended to the Bayesian nonparametric case, yielding a simple, scalable, and flexible algorithm for discrete-state sequence data with a non-fixed number of states. We also derive the corresponding combinatorial objective functions arising from our analysis, which involve a k-means-like term along with penalties based on state transitions and the number of states. A key property of such algorithms is that  particularly in the nonparametric setting  standard probabilistic inference algorithms lack scalability and are heavily dependent on good initialization. A number of results on synthetic and real data sets demonstrate the advantages of the proposed framework.
Probabilistic Principal Geodesic Analysis,Principal geodesic analysis (PGA) is a generalization of principal component analysis (PCA) for dimensionality reduction of data on a Riemannian manifold. Currently PGA is defined as a geometric fit to the data, rather than as a probabilistic model. Inspired by probabilistic PCA, we present a latent variable model for PGA that provides a probabilistic framework for factor analysis on manifolds. To compute maximum likelihood estimates of the parameters in our model, we develop a Monte Carlo Expectation Maximization algorithm, where the expectation is approximated by Hamiltonian Monte Carlo sampling of the latent variables. We demonstrate the ability of our method to recover the ground truth parameters in simulated sphere data, as well as its effectiveness in analyzing shape variability of a corpus callosum data set from human brain images.
Regularized M-estimators with nonconvexity: Statistical and algorithmic theory for local optima,We establish theoretical results concerning all local optima of various regularized M-estimators, where both loss and penalty functions are allowed to be nonconvex. Our results show that as long as the loss function satisfies restricted strong convexity and the penalty function satisfies suitable regularity conditions, any local optimum of the composite objective function lies within statistical precision of the true parameter vector. Our theory covers a broad class of nonconvex objective functions, including corrected versions of the Lasso for errors-in-variables linear models; regression in generalized linear models using nonconvex regularizers such as SCAD and MCP; and graph and inverse covariance matrix estimation. On the optimization side, we show that a simple adaptation of composite gradient descent may be used to compute a global optimum up to the statistical precision epsilon in log(1/epsilon) iterations, which is the fastest possible rate of any first-order method. We provide a variety of simulations to illustrate the sharpness of our theoretical predictions.
The Fast Convergence of Incremental PCA,We prove the first finite-sample convergence rates for any incremental PCA algorithm using sub-quadratic time and memory per iteration. The algorithm analyzed is Oja's learning rule, an efficient and well-known scheme for estimating the top principal component. Our analysis of this non-convex problem yields expected and high-probability convergence rates of $\tilde{O}(1/n)$ through a novel technique. We relate our guarantees to existing rates for stochastic gradient descent on strongly convex functions, and extend those results. We also include experiments which demonstrate convergence behaviors predicted by our analysis.
Robust Low Rank Kernel Embeddings of Multivariate Distributions,Kernel embedding of distributions has led to many recent advances in machine learning. However, latent and low rank structures prevalent in real world distributions have rarely been taken into account in this setting. Furthermore, no prior work in kernel embedding literature has addressed the issue of robust embedding when the latent and low rank information are misspecified. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical low rank decomposition of kernels embeddings which can exploit such low rank structures in data while being robust to model misspecification. We also illustrate with empirical evidence that the estimated low rank embeddings lead to improved performance in density estimation.
Optimizing Instructional Policies,Psychologists are interested in developing instructional policies that boost student learning. An instructional policy specifies the manner and content of instruction. For example, in the domain of concept learning, a policy might specify the nature of exemplars chosen over a training sequence.  Traditional psychological studies compare several hand-selected policies, e.g., contrasting a policy that selects only difficult-to-classify exemplars with a policy that gradually progresses over the training sequence from easy exemplars to more difficult (known as {\em fading}). We propose an alternative to the traditional methodology in which we define a  parameterized space of policies and search this space to identify the optimum policy. For example, in concept learning, policies might be described by a fading function that specifies exemplar difficulty over time.  We propose an experimental technique for searching policy spaces using Gaussian process surrogate-based optimization and a generative model of student performance. Instead of evaluating a few experimental conditions each with many human subjects, as the traditional methodology does, our technique evaluates many experimental conditions each with a few subjects.  Even though individual subjects provide only a noisy estimate of the population mean, the optimization method allows us to determine the shape of the policy space and identify the global optimum, and is as efficient in its subject budget as a traditional A-B comparison.  We evaluate the method via two behavioral studies, and suggest that the method has broad applicability to optimization problems involving humans in domains beyond the educational arena.
Statistical analysis of coupled time series with Kernel Cross-Spectral Density operators.,Many applications require the analysis of complex interactions between time series. These interactions can be non-linear and involve vector valued as well as complex data structures such as graphs or strings. Here we provide a general framework for the statistical analysis of these interactions when random variables are sampled from stationary time-series of arbitrary objects. To achieve this goal we analyze the properties of the kernel cross-spectral density operator induced by positive definite kernels on arbitrary input domains. This framework enables us to develop an independence test between time series as well as a similarity measure to compare different types of coupling. The performance of our test is compared to the HSIC test using i.i.d. assumptions, showing improvement in terms of detection errors as well as the suitability of this approach for testing dependency in complex dynamical systems. Finally, we use this approach to characterize complex interactions in electrophysiological neural time series.
Bayesian Mixture Modelling and Inference based Thompson Sampling in Monte-Carlo Tree Search,Monte-Carlo tree search is drawing great interest in the domain of planning under uncertainty, particularly when little or no domain knowledge is available. One of the central problems is the trade-off between exploration and exploitation. In this paper we present a novel Bayesian mixture modelling and inference based Thompson sampling approach to addressing this dilemma. The proposed Dirichlet-NormalGamma MCTS (DNG-MCTS) algorithm represents the uncertainty of the accumulated reward for actions in the MCTS search tree as a mixture of Normal distributions and inferences on it in Bayesian settings by choosing conjugate priors in the form of combinations of Dirichlet and NormalGamma distributions. Thompson sampling is used to select the best action at each decision node. Experimental results show that our proposed algorithm has achieved the state-of-the-art comparing with popular UCT algorithm in the context of online planning for general Markov decision processes.
Lasso Screening Rules via Dual Polytope Projection,Lasso is a widely used regression technique to find sparse representations. When the dimension of the feature space and the number of samples are extremely large, solving the Lasso problem remains challenging. To improve the efficiency of solving large-scale Lasso problems, El Ghaoui and his colleagues have proposed the SAFE rules which are able to quickly identify the inactive predictors, i.e., predictors that have $0$ components in the solution vector. Then, the inactive predictors or features can be removed from the optimization problem to reduce its scale. By transforming the standard Lasso to its dual form, it can be shown that the inactive predictors include the set of inactive constraints on the optimal dual solution. In this paper, we propose an efficient and effective screening rule via Dual Polytope Projections (DPP), which is mainly based on the uniqueness and nonexpansiveness  of the optimal dual solution due to the fact that the feasible set in the dual space is a convex and closed polytope. Moreover, we show that our screening rule can be extended to identify inactive groups in group Lasso. To the best of our knowledge, there is currently no "exact" screening rule for group Lasso. We have evaluated our screening rule using many real data sets. Results show that our rule is more effective to identify inactive predictors than existing state-of-the-art screening rules for Lasso.
The Total Variation on Hypergraphs - Learning on Hypergraphs Revisited,Hypergraphs allow to encode higher-order relationships in data and are thus a very flexible modeling tool. Current learning methods are either based on approximations of the hypergraphs via graphs or  on tensor methods which are only applicable under special conditions. In this paper we present a new learning framework on hypergraphs which fully uses the hypergraph structure. The key element  is a family of regularization functionals based on  the total variation on hypergraphs.
Robust Transfer Principal Component Analysis with Rank Constraints,Principal component analysis (PCA), a well-established technique for data analysis and processing, provides a convenient form of dimensionality reduction that is effective for cleaning small Gaussian noises presented in the data. However, the applicability of standard principal component analysis in real scenarios is limited by its sensitivity to large errors. In this paper, we tackle the challenge problem of recovering data corrupted with errors of high magnitude by developing a novel robust transfer principal component analysis method. Our method is based on the assumption that useful information for the recovery of a corrupted data matrix can be gained from an uncorrupted related data matrix. Specically, we formulate the data recovery problem as a joint robust principal component analysis problem on the two data matrices, with shared common principal components across matrices and individual principal components specic to each data matrix. The formulated optimization problem is a minimization problem over a convex objective function but with non-convex rank constraints. We develop an efcient proximal projected gradient descent algorithm to solve the proposed optimization problem with convergence guarantees. Our empirical results over image denoising tasks show the proposed method can effectively recover images with random large errors, and signicantly outperform both standard PCA and robust PCA.
Regression-tree Tuning in a Streaming Setting,We consider the problem of maintaining the data-structures of a partition-based regression procedure in a setting where the training data arrives sequentially over time. We prove that it is possible to maintain such a structure in time $O(\log n)$ at any time step $n$ while achieving a nearly-optimal regression rate of $\tilde{O}(n^{-2/(2+d)})$ in terms of the unknown metric dimension $d$. Finally we prove a new regression lower-bound which is independent of a given data size, and hence is more appropriate for the streaming setting.
Synthesizing Robust Plans under Incomplete Domain Models,Most current planners assume complete domain models and focus on generating correct plans. Unfortunately, domain modeling is a laborious and error-prone task, thus real world agents have to plan with incomplete domain models. While domain experts cannot guarantee completeness, often they are able to circumscribe the incompleteness of the model by providing annotations as to which parts of the domain model may be incomplete. In such cases, the goal should be to synthesize plans that are robust with respect to any known incompleteness of the domain. In this paper, we first introduce annotations expressing the knowledge of the domain incompleteness and formalize the notion of plan robustness with respect to an incomplete domain model. We then show an approach to compiling the problem of finding robust plans to the conformant probabilistic planning problem, and present experimental results with Probabilistic-FF planner.
Unsupervised Structure Learning of Stochastic And-Or Grammars,Stochastic And-Or grammars compactly represent both compositionality and reconfigurability and have been used to model different types of data such as images and events. We present a unified formalization of stochastic And-Or grammars that is agnostic to the type of the data being modeled, and propose an unsupervised approach to learning the structures as well as the parameters of such grammars. Starting from a trivial initial grammar, our approach iteratively induces compositions and reconfigurations in a unified manner and optimizes the posterior probability of the grammar. In our empirical evaluation, we applied our approach to learning event grammars and image grammars and achieved comparable or better performance than previous approaches.
Sequential Transfer in Multi-armed Bandit with Finite Set of Models,Learning from prior tasks and transferring that experience to improve future performance is critical for building lifelong learning agents. Although results in supervised and reinforcement learning show that transfer may significantly improve the learning performance, most of the literature on transfer is focused on batch learning tasks. In this paper we study the problem of sequential transfer in online learning, notably in the multi-arm bandit framework, where the objective is to minimize the cumulative regret over a sequence of tasks by incrementally transferring knowledge from prior tasks.  We introduce a novel bandit algorithm based on a method-of-moments approach for the estimation of the possible tasks and derive regret bounds for it.
Faster Ridge Regression via the Subsampled Randomized Hadamard Transform,We propose a fast algorithm for ridge regression when the number of features is much larger than the number of observations ($p \gg n$). The standard way to solve ridge regression in this setting works in the dual space and gives a running time of $O(n^2p)$. Our algorithm (SRHT-DRR) runs in time $O(np\log(n))$ and works by preconditioning the design matrix by a Randomized Walsh-Hadamard Transform with a subsequent subsampling of features. We provide risk bounds for our SRHT-DRR algorithm in the fixed design setting and show experimental results on synthetic and real datasets.
Robust Bloom Filters for Large MultiLabel Classification Tasks,This  paper presents an approach to multilabel classification (MLC) with a large number of labels. Our approach is a reduction to binary classification in which label sets are represented by low dimensional binary vectors. This representation follows the principle of Bloom filters, a space-efficient data structure originally designed for approximate membership testing. We show that a naive application of Bloom filters in MLC is not robust to individual binary classifiers' errors. We then present an approach that exploits a specific feature of real-world datasets when the number of labels is large: many labels (almost) never appear together.  Our approch is provably robust, has sublinear training and inference complexity with respect to the number of labels, and compares favorably to state-of-the-art algorithms on two large scale multilabel datasets.
Sketching Structured Matrices for Faster Nonlinear Regression,Motivated by the desire to extend fast randomized techniques to nonlinear $l_p$ regression, we consider a class of structured regression problems. These problems involve Vandermonde matrices which arise naturally in various statistical modeling settings, including classical polynomial fitting problems and recently developed randomized techniques for scalable kernel methods. We show that this structure can be exploited to further accelerate the solution of the regression problem, achieving running times that are faster than "input sparsity''. We present empirical results confirming both the practical value of our modeling framework, as well as speedup benefits of randomized regression.
Thompson Sampling for 1-Dimensional Exponential Family Bandits,Thompson Sampling has been demonstrated in many complex bandit models, however the theoretical guarantees available for the parametric multi-armed bandit are still limited to the Bernoulli case. Here we extend them by proving asymptotic optimality of the algorithm using the Jeffreys prior for $1$-dimensional exponential family bandits. Our proof builds on previous work, but also makes extensive use of closed forms for Kullback-Leibler divergence and Fisher information (and thus Jeffreys prior) available in an exponential family. This allow us to give a finite time exponential concentration inequality for posterior distributions on exponential families that may be of interest in its own right. Moreover our analysis covers some distributions for which no optimistic algorithm has yet been proposed, including heavy-tailed exponential families.
More Effective Distributed ML via a Stale Synchronous Parallel Parameter Server,We propose a parameter server system for distributed ML, which follows a Stale Synchronous Parallel (SSP) model of computation that maximizes the time computational workers spend doing useful work on ML algorithms, while still providing correctness guarantees. The parameter server provides an easy-to-use shared interface for read/write access to an ML model's values (parameters and variables), and the SSP model allows distributed workers to read older, stale versions of these values from a local cache, instead of waiting to get them from a central storage. This significantly increases the proportion of time workers spend computing, as opposed to waiting. Furthermore, the SSP model ensures ML algorithm correctness by limiting the maximum age of the stale values. We provide a proof of correctness under SSP, as well as empirical results demonstrating that the SSP model achieves faster algorithm convergence on several different ML problems, compared to fully-synchronous and asynchronous schemes.
More data speeds up training time in learning halfspaces over sparse vectors,The increased availability of data in recent years led several authors to ask whether it is possible to use data as  a {\em computational} resource. That is, if more data is available, beyond the sample complexity limit, is it possible to use the extra examples to speed up the computation time required to perform the learning task?  We give the first positive answer to this question for a {\em natural supervised learning problem} --- we consider agnostic PAC learning of halfspaces over $3$-sparse vectors in $\{-1,1,0\}^n$. This class is inefficiently learnable using $O\left(n/\epsilon^2\right)$ examples. Our main contribution is a novel, non-cryptographic, methodology for establishing computational-statistical gaps, which allows us to show that, under a widely believed assumption that refuting random $\mathrm{3CNF}$ formulas is hard, efficiently learning this class using O\left(n/\epsilon^2\right)$ examples is impossible. We further show that under stronger hardness assumptions, even $O\left(n^{1.499}/\epsilon^2\right)$ examples do not suffice.  On the other hand, we show a new algorithm that learns this class efficiently using $\tilde{\Omega}\left(n^2/\epsilon^2\right)$ examples. This formally establishes the tradeoff between sample and computational complexity for a natural supervised learning problem.
Predictive PAC Learning and Process Decompositions,We informally call a stochastic process learnable if it admits a generalization error approaching zero in probability for any concept class with finite VC-dimension (IID processes are the simplest example).  A mixture of learnable processes need not be learnable itself, and certainly its generalization error need not decay at the same rate. In this paper, we argue that it is natural in predictive PAC to condition not on the past observations but on the mixture component of the sample path. This definition not only matches what a realistic learner might demand, but also allows us to sidestep several otherwise grave problems in learning from dependent data. In particular, we give a novel PAC generalization bound for mixtures of learnable processes with a generalization error that is not worse than that of each mixture component.  We also provide a characterization of mixtures of absolutely regular ($\beta$-mixing) processes, of independent interest.
Distributed k-means and k-median clustering on general communication topologies,This paper provides new algorithms for distributed clustering for two popular center-based objectives, $k$-median and $k$-means. These algorithms have provable guarantees and improve communication complexity over existing approaches. Following a classic approach in clustering by \cite{har2004coresets}, we reduce the problem of finding a clustering with low cost to the problem of finding a `coreset' of small size. We provide a distributed method for constructing a global coreset which improves over the previous methods by reducing the communication complexity, and which works over general communication topologies. We provide experimental evidence for this approach on both synthetic and real data sets.
Convex Calibrated Surrogates for Low-Rank Loss Matrices with Applications to Subset Ranking Losses,The design of convex, calibrated surrogate losses, whose minimization entails consistency with respect to a desired target loss, is an important concept to have emerged in the theory of machine learning in recent years. We give an explicit construction of a convex least-squares type surrogate loss that can be designed to be calibrated for any multiclass learning problem for which the target loss matrix has a low-rank structure; the surrogate loss operates on a surrogate target space of dimension at most the rank of the target loss. We use this result to design convex calibrated surrogates for a variety of subset ranking problems, with target losses including the precision@q, expected rank utility, mean average precision, and pairwise disagreement.
Statistical Active Learning Algorithms,We describe a framework for designing efficient active learning algorithms that are tolerant to random classification noise. The framework is based on active learning algorithms that are statistical in the sense that they rely on estimates of expectations of functions of filtered random examples. It builds on the powerful statistical query framework of Kearns (1993).  We show that any efficient active statistical learning algorithm can be automatically converted to an efficient active learning algorithm which is tolerant to random classification noise as well as other forms of "uncorrelated" noise. The complexity of the resulting algorithms has information-theoretically optimal quadratic dependence on $1/(1-2\eta)$, where $\eta$ is the noise rate.  We demonstrate the power of our framework by showing that commonly studied concept classes including thresholds, rectangles, and linear separators can be efficiently actively learned in our framework. These results combined with our generic conversion lead to the first known computationally-efficient algorithms for actively learning some of these concept classes in the presence of random classification noise that provide exponential improvement in the dependence on the error $\epsilon$ over their passive counterparts. In addition, we show that our algorithms can be automatically converted to efficient active differentially-private algorithms. This leads to the first differentially-private active learning algorithms with exponential label savings over the passive case.
Multiclass Total Variation Clustering,Ideas from the image processing literature have recently motivated a new set of clustering algorithms that rely on the concept of total variation. While these algorithms perform well for bi-partitioning tasks, their recursive extensions yield unimpressive results for multiclass clustering tasks. This paper presents a general framework for multiclass total variation clustering that does not rely on recursion. The results greatly outperform previous total variation algorithms and compare well with state-of-the-art NMF approaches.
Prior-free and prior-dependent regret bounds for Thompson Sampling,We consider the stochastic multi-armed bandit problem with a prior distribution on the reward distributions. We are interested in studying prior-free and prior-dependent regret bounds, very much in the same spirit than the usual distribution-free and distribution-dependent bounds for the non-Bayesian stochastic bandit. We first show that Thompson Sampling attains an optimal prior-free bound in the sense that for any prior distribution its Bayesian regret is bounded from above by $14 \sqrt{n K}$. This result is unimprovable in the sense that there exists a prior distribution such that any algorithm has a Bayesian regret bounded from below by $\frac{1}{20} \sqrt{n K}$. We also study the case of priors for the setting of Bubeck et al. [2013] (where the optimal mean is known as well as a lower bound on the smallest gap) and we show that in this case the regret of Thompson Sampling is in fact uniformly bounded over time, thus showing that Thompson Sampling can greatly take advantage of the nice properties of these priors.
What do row and column marginals reveal about your dataset?,Numerous datasets ranging from group memberships within social networks to purchase histories on e-commerce sites are represented by binary matrices. While this data is often either proprietary or sensitive, aggregated data, notably row and column marginals, is often viewed as much less sensitive, and may be furnished for analysis. Here, we investigate how these data can be exploited to make inferences about the underlying matrix H. Instead of assuming a generative model for H, we view the input marginals as constraints on the dataspace of possible realizations of H and compute the probability density function of particular entries H(i,j) of interest. We do this, for all the cells of H simultaneously, without generating realizations but rather via implicitly sampling the datasets that satisfy the input marginals. The end result is an efficient algorithm with running time equal to the time required by standard sampling techniques to generate a single dataset from the same dataspace. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates the efficiency and the efficacy of our framework in multiple settings.
Solving inverse problem of Markov chain with partial observations,The Markov chain is a convenient tool to represent the dynamics of complex systems such as traffic and social systems, where probabilistic transition takes place between internal states. A Markov chain is characterized by initial-state probabilities and a state-transition probability matrix. In the traditional setting, a major goal is to figure out properties of a Markov chain when those probabilities are known. This paper tackles an inverse version of the problem: we find those probabilities from partial observations at a limited number of states. The observations include the frequency of visiting a state and the rate of reaching a state from another. Practical examples of this task include traffic monitoring systems in cities, where we need to infer the traffic volume on every single link on a road network from a very limited number of observation points. We formulate this task as a regularized optimization problem for probability functions, which is efficiently solved using the notion of natural gradient. Using synthetic and real-world data sets including city traffic monitoring data, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
PAC-Bayes-Empirical-Bernstein Inequality,We present PAC-Bayes-Empirical-Bernstein inequality. The inequality is based on combination of PAC-Bayesian bounding technique with Empirical Bernstein bound. It allows to take advantage of small empirical variance and is especially useful in regression. We show that when the empirical variance is significantly smaller than the empirical loss PAC-Bayes-Empirical-Bernstein inequality is significantly tighter than PAC-Bayes-kl inequality of Seeger (2002) and otherwise it is comparable. PAC-Bayes-Empirical-Bernstein inequality is an interesting example of application of PAC-Bayesian bounding technique to self-bounding functions. We provide empirical comparison of PAC-Bayes-Empirical-Bernstein inequality with PAC-Bayes-kl inequality on a synthetic example and several UCI datasets.
Approximate Inference in Continuous Determinantal Processes,Determinantal point processes (DPPs) are random point processes well-suited for modeling repulsion. In machine learning, the focus of DPP-based models has been on diverse subset selection from a discrete and finite base set. This discrete setting admits an efficient algorithm for sampling based on the eigendecomposition of the defining kernel matrix. Recently, there has been growing interest in using DPPs defined on continuous spaces. While the discrete-DPP sampler extends formally to the continuous case, computationally, the steps required cannot be directly extended except in a few restricted cases. In this paper, we present efficient approximate DPP sampling schemes based on Nystrom and random Fourier feature approximations that apply to a wide range of kernel functions. We demonstrate the utility of continuous DPPs in repulsive mixture modeling applications and synthesizing human poses spanning activity spaces.
Inverse Density as an Inverse Problem: the Fredholm Equation Approach,We address the problem of estimating the ratio $\frac{q}{p}$ where $p$ is a density function and $q$ is another density, or, more generally an arbitrary function.  Knowing or approximating this ratio is needed in various problems of inference and integration, in particular, when one needs to average a function with respect to one probability distribution, given a sample from another. It is often referred as {\it importance sampling} in statistical inference and is  also closely related to the problem of {\it covariate shift} in transfer learning as well as to various MCMC methods. Our approach is based on reformulating the problem of estimating the ratio as an inverse problem in terms of an integral operator corresponding to a kernel, and thus reducing it to an integral equation, known as the Fredholm problem of the first kind.   This formulation, combined with the techniques of regularization and kernel methods, leads to a principled kernel-based framework for constructing algorithms and for analyzing them theoretically.  The resulting family of algorithms (FIRE, for Fredholm Inverse Regularized Estimator) is flexible,  simple and  easy to implement. We provide detailed theoretical analysis including concentration bounds and convergence rates for the Gaussian kernel for densities defined on $\R^d$ and smooth $d$-dimensional sub-manifolds of the Euclidean space. Model selection for unsupervised or semi-supervised inference is generally a difficult problem. Interestingly, it turns out that in the density ratio estimation setting, when samples from both distributions are available, there are simple completely unsupervised methods for choosing parameters. We  call this model selection mechanism CD-CV for Cross-Density Cross-Validation. Finally, we show encouraging experimental results including applications to classification  within the covariate shift framework.
Robust Data-Driven Dynamic Programming,In stochastic optimal control the distribution of the exogenous noise is typically unknown and must be inferred from limited data before dynamic programming (DP)-based solution schemes can be applied. If the conditional expectations in the DP recursions are estimated via kernel regression, however, the historical sample paths enter the solution procedure directly as they determine the evaluation points of the cost-to-go functions. The resulting data-driven DP scheme is asymptotically consistent and admits efficient computational solution when combined with parametric value function approximations. If training data is sparse, however, the estimated cost-to-go functions display a high variability and an optimistic bias, while the corresponding control policies perform poorly in out-of-sample tests. To mitigate these small sample effects, we propose a robust data-driven DP scheme, which replaces the expectations in the DP recursions with worst-case expectations over a set of distributions close to the best estimate. We show that the arising min-max problems in the DP recursions reduce to tractable conic programs. We also demonstrate that this robust algorithm dominates state-of-the-art benchmark algorithms in out-of-sample tests across several application domains.
Visual Concept Learning: Combining Machine Vision and Bayesian Generalization on Concept Hierarchies,Learning a visual concept from a small number of positive examples is a significant challenge for machine learning algorithms. Current methods typically fail to find the appropriate level of generalization in a concept hierarchy for a given set of visual examples. Recent work in cognitive science on Bayesian models of generalization addresses this challenge, but prior results assumed that objects were perfectly  recognized. We present an algorithm for learning visual concepts directly from images, using  probabilistic predictions generated by visual classifiers as the input to a Bayesian generalization model. As no existing challenge data tests this paradigm, we collect and make available a new, large-scale dataset for visual concept learning using the ImageNet hierarchy as the source of possible concepts, with human annotators to provide ground truth labels as to whether a new image is an instance of each concept using a paradigm similar to that used in experiments studying word learning in children.  We compare the performance of our system to several baseline algorithms, and show a significant advantage results from combining visual classifiers with the ability to identify an appropriate level of abstraction using Bayesian generalization.
Learning Gaussian Graphical Models with Observed or Latent FVSs,Gaussian Graphical Models (GGMs) or Gauss Markov random fields are widely used in many applications, and the trade-off between the modeling capacity and the efficiency of learning and inference has been an important research problem. In this paper, we study the family of GGMs with small feedback vertex sets (FVSs), where an FVS is a set of nodes whose removal breaks all the cycles. Exact inference such as computing the marginal distributions and the partition function has complexity $O(k^{2}n)$  using message-passing algorithms, where k  is the size of the FVS, and n  is the total number of nodes. We propose efficient structure learning algorithms for two cases: 1) All nodes are observed, which is useful in modeling social or flight networks where the FVS nodes often correspond to a small number of high-degree nodes, or hubs, while the rest of the networks is modeled by a tree. Regardless of the maximum degree, without knowing the full graph structure, we can exactly compute the maximum likelihood estimate in $O(kn^2+n^2\log n)$  if the FVS is known or in polynomial time if the FVS is unknown but has bounded size. 2) The FVS nodes are latent variables, where structure learning is equivalent to decomposing a inverse covariance matrix (exactly or approximately) into the sum of a tree-structured matrix and a low-rank matrix. By incorporating efficient inference into the learning steps, we can obtain a learning algorithm using alternating low-rank correction with complexity $O(kn^{2}+n^{2}\log n)$  per iteration. We also perform experiments using both synthetic data as well as real data of flight delays to demonstrate the modeling capacity with FVSs of various sizes. We show that empirically the family of GGMs of size $O(\log n)$ strikes a good balance between the modeling capacity and the efficiency.
Lexical and Hierarchical Topic Regression,Inspired by a two-level theory that unifies agenda setting and ideological  framing, we propose supervised hierarchical latent Dirichlet allocation  (SHLDA) which jointly captures documents' multi-level topic structure and  their polar response variables. Our model extends the nested Chinese restaurant  process to discover a tree-structured topic hierarchy and uses both per-topic  hierarchical and per-word lexical regression parameters to model the response  variables. Experiments in a political domain and on sentiment analysis tasks  show that SHLDA improves predictive accuracy while adding a new dimension of  insight into how topics under discussion are framed.
On Poisson Graphical Models,Undirected graphical models, such as Gaussian graphical models, Ising, and multinomial/categorical graphical models, are widely used in a variety of applications for modeling distributions over a large number of variables. These standard instances, however, are ill-suited to modeling count data, which are increasingly ubiquitous in big-data settings such as genomic sequencing data, user-ratings data, spatial incidence data, climate studies, and site visits. Existing classes of Poisson graphical models, which arise as the joint distributions that correspond to Poisson distributed node-conditional distributions, have a major drawback: they can only model negative conditional dependencies for reasons of normalizability given its infinite domain. In this paper, our objective is to modify the Poisson graphical model distribution so that it can capture a rich dependence structure between count-valued variables. We begin by discussing two strategies for truncating the Poisson distribution and show that only one of these leads to a valid joint distribution; even this model, however, has limitations on the types of variables and dependencies that may be modeled. To address this, we propose two novel variants of the Poisson distribution and their corresponding joint graphical model distributions.  These models provide a class of Poisson graphical models that can capture both positive and negative conditional dependencies between count-valued variables. One can learn the graph structure of our model via penalized neighborhood selection, and we demonstrate the performance of our methods by learning simulated networks as well as a network from microRNA-Sequencing data.
Optimization, Learning, and Games with Predictable Sequences,We provide several applications of Optimistic Mirror Descent, an online learning algorithm based on the idea of predictable sequences. First, we recover the Mirror-Prox algorithm, prove an extension to Holder-smooth functions, and apply the results to saddle-point type problems. Second, we prove that a version of Optimistic Mirror Descent (which has a close relation to the Exponential Weights algorithm) can be used by two strongly-uncoupled players in a finite zero-sum matrix game to converge to the minimax equilibrium at the rate of O(log T / T). This addresses a question of Daskalakis et al, 2011. Further, we consider a partial information version of the problem. We then apply the results to approximate convex programming  and show a simple algorithm for the approximate Max-Flow problem.
Deep Neural Networks for Object Detection,Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have recently shown outstanding performance on the task of whole image classification. In this paper we go one step further and address the problem of object detection -- not only classifying but also precisely localizing objects of various classes using DNNs. We present a simple and yet powerful formulation of object detection as a regression to object masks. We define a multi-scale inference procedure which is able to produce a high-resolution object detection at a low cost by a few network applications. The approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on Pascal 2007 VOC.
Action is in the Eye of the Beholder: Eye-gaze Driven Model for Spatio-Temporal Action Localization,We propose a new weakly-supervised structured learning approach for recognition and spatio-temporal localization of actions in video. As part of the proposed approach we develop a generalization of the Max-Path search algorithm, which allows us to efficiently search over a structured space of multiple spatio-temporal paths, while also allowing to incorporate context information into the model. Instead of using spatial annotations, in the form of bounding boxes, to guide the latent model during training, we utilize human gaze data in the form of a weak supervisory signal. This is achieved by incorporating gaze, along with the classification, into the structured loss within the latent SVM learning framework. Experiments on a challenging benchmark dataset, UCF-Sports, show that our model is more accurate, in terms of classification, and achieves state-of-the-art results in localization. In addition, we show how our model can produce top-down saliency maps conditioned on the classification label and localized latent paths.
BIG & QUIC: Sparse Inverse Covariance Estimation for a Million Variables,The l1-regularized Gaussian maximum likelihood estimator (MLE) has been shown to have strong statistical guarantees in recovering a sparse inverse covariance matrix even under high-dimensional settings. However, it requires solving a difficult non-smooth log-determinant program with number of parameters scaling quadratically with the number of Gaussian variables. State-of-the-art methods thus do not scale to problems with more than 20,000 variables. In this paper, we develop an algorithm BigQUIC, which can solve 1 million dimensional l1-regularized Gaussian MLE problems (which would thus have 1000 billion parameters) using a single machine, with bounded memory. In order to do so, we carefully exploit the underlying structure of the problem. Our innovations include a novel block-coordinate descent method with the blocks chosen via a clustering scheme to minimize repeated computations; and allowing for inexact computation of specific components. In spite of these modifications,  we are able to theoretically analyze our procedure and show that BigQUIC can achieve super-linear or even quadratic convergence rates.
Probabilistic Movement Primitives,Movement Primitives (MP) are a well-established approach for representing modular and re-usable robot movement generators. Many state-of-the-art robot learning successes are based MPs, due to their compact representation of the inherently continuous and high dimensional robot movements. A major goal in robot learning is to combine multiple MPs as building blocks in a modular control architecture to solve complex tasks. To this effect, a MP representation has to allow for blending between motions, adapting to altered task variables, and co-activating multiple MPs in parallel. We present a probabilistic formulation of the MP concept that maintains a distribution over trajectories. Our probabilistic approach allows for the derivation of new operations which are essential for implementing all aforementioned properties in one framework. In order to use such a trajectory distribution for robot movement control, we analytically derive a stochastic feedback controller which reproduces the given trajectory distribution. We evaluate and compare our approach to existing methods on several simulated as well as real robot scenarios.
Estimation Bias in Multi-Armed Bandit Algorithms for Search Advertising,In search advertising, the search engine needs to select the most profitable advertisements to display, which can be formulated as an instance of online learning with partial feedback, also known as the stochastic multi-armed bandit (MAB) problem. In this paper, we show that the naive application of MAB algorithms to search advertising for advertisement selection will produce sample selection bias that harms the search engine by decreasing expected revenue and estimation of the largest mean (ELM) bias that harms the advertisers by increasing game-theoretic player-regret. We then propose simple bias-correction methods with benefits to both the search engine and the advertisers.
Bellman Error Based Feature Generation using Random Projections on Sparse Spaces,This paper addresses the problem of automatic generation of features for value function approximation in reinforcement learning.  Bellman Error Basis Functions (BEBFs) have been shown to improve the error of policy evaluation with function approximation, with a convergence rate similar to that of value iteration. We propose a simple, fast and robust algorithm based on random projections, which generates BEBFs for sparse feature spaces. We provide a finite sample analysis of the proposed method, and prove that projections logarithmic in the dimension of the original space guarantee a contraction in the error.  Empirical results demonstrate the strength of this method in domains in which choosing a good state representation is challenging.
Learning the Local Statistics of Optical Flow,Motivated by recent progress in natural image statistics, we use newly available datasets with ground truth optical flow to learn the  local statistics of optical flow and rigorously compare the learned model to prior models assumed by computer vision optical flow algorithms.  We find that a Gaussian mixture model with 64 components provides a significantly better model for local flow statistics when compared to commonly used models. We investigate the source of the GMMs success and show it is related to an explicit representation of flow boundaries. We also learn a model that jointly models the local intensity pattern and the local optical flow. In accordance with the assumptions often made in computer vision, the model learns that flow boundaries are more likely at intensity boundaries. However, when evaluated on a large dataset, this dependency is very weak and the benefit of conditioning flow estimation on the local intensity pattern is marginal.
Mapping paradigm ontologies to and from the brain,Imaging neuroscience links brain activation maps to behavior and cognition via correlational studies. Due to the nature of the individual experiments, based on eliciting neural response from a small number of stimuli, this link is incomplete, and unidirectional from the causal point of view. To come to conclusions on the function implied  by the activation of brain regions, it is necessary to combine a wide exploration of the various brain functions and some inversion of the statistical inference. Here we introduce a methodology for accumulating knowledge towards a bidirectional link between observed brain activity and the corresponding function. We rely on a large corpus of imaging studies and a predictive engine. Technically, the challenges are to find commonality between the studies without denaturing the richness of the corpus. The key elements that we contribute are labeling the tasks performed with a cognitive ontology, and modeling the long tail of rare paradigms in the corpus. To our knowledge, our approach is the first demonstration of predicting the cognitive content of completely new brain images. To that end, we propose a method that predicts the experimental paradigms across different studies.
Factorized Asymptotic Bayesian Inference for Latent Feature Models,This paper extends factorized asymptotic Bayesian (FAB) inference for latent feature models~(LFMs). FAB inference has not been applicable to models, including LFMs, without a specific condition on the Hesqsian matrix of a complete log-likelihood, which is required to derive a "factorized information criterion''~(FIC). Our asymptotic analysis of the Hessian matrix of LFMs shows that FIC of LFMs has the same form as those of mixture models.  FAB/LFMs have several desirable properties (e.g., automatic hidden states selection and parameter identifiability) and empirically perform better than state-of-the-art Indian Buffet processes in terms of model selection, prediction, and computational efficiency.
Variational Policy Search via Trajectory Optimization,In order to learn effective control policies for dynamical systems, policy search methods must be able to discover successful executions of the desired task. While random exploration can work well in simple domains, complex and high-dimensional tasks present a serious challenge, particularly when combined with high-dimensional policies that make parameter-space exploration infeasible. We present a method that uses trajectory optimization as a powerful exploration strategy that guides the policy search. A variational decomposition of a maximum likelihood policy objective allows us to use standard trajectory optimization algorithms such as differential dynamic programming, interleaved with standard supervised learning for the policy itself. We demonstrate that the resulting algorithm can outperform prior methods on two challenging locomotion tasks.
Forgetful Bayes and myopic planning: Human learning and decision-making in a bandit setting,How humans achieve long-term goals in an uncertain environment, via repeated trials and noisy observations, is an important problem in cognitive science. We investigate this behavior in the context of a multi-armed bandit task. We compare human behavior to a variety of models that vary in their representational and computational complexity. Our result shows that subjects' choices, on a trial-to-trial basis, are best captured by a "forgetful" Bayesian iterative learning model in combination with a partially myopic decision policy known as Knowledge Gradient. This model accounts for subjects' trial-by-trial choice better than a number of other previously proposed models, including optimal Bayesian learning and risk minimization, epsilon-greedy and win-stay-lose-shift. It has the added benefit of being closest in performance to the optimal Bayesian model than all the other heuristic models that have the same computational complexity (all are significantly less complex than the optimal model). These results constitute an advancement in the theoretical understanding of how humans negotiate the tension between exploration and exploitation in a noisy, imperfectly known environment.
The Pareto Regret Frontier,Performance guarantees for online learning algorithms typically take the form of regret bounds, which express that the cumulative loss overhead compared to the best expert in hindsight is small. In the common case of large but structured expert sets we typically wish to keep the regret especially small compared to simple experts, at the cost of modest additional overhead  compared to more complex others. We study which such regret trade-offs can be achieved, and how.  We analyse regret w.r.t. each individual expert as a multi-objective criterion in the simple but fundamental case of absolute loss. We characterise the achievable and Pareto optimal trade-offs, and the corresponding optimal strategies for each sample size both exactly for each finite horizon and asymptotically.
A Novel Two-Step Method for Cross Language Representation Learning,Cross language text classication is an important learning task in natural language processing. A critical challenge of cross language learning lies in that words of different languages are in disjoint feature spaces. In this paper, we propose a two-step representation learning method to bridge the feature spaces of different languages by exploiting a set of parallel bilingual documents. Specically, we rst formulate a matrix completion problem to produce a complete parallel document-term matrix for all documents in two languages, and then induce a cross-lingual document representation by applying latent semantic indexing on the obtained matrix. We use a projected gradient descent algorithm to solve the formulated matrix completion problem with convergence guarantees. The proposed approach is evaluated by conducting a set of experiments with cross language sentiment classication tasks on Amazon product reviews. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed learning approach outperforms a number of comparison cross language representation learning methods, especially when the number of parallel bilingual documents is small.
Mid-level Visual Element Discovery as Discriminative Mode Seeking,Recent work on mid-level visual representations aims to capture information at the level of complexity higher than typical "visual words", but lower than full-blown semantic objects. Several approaches have been proposed to discover mid-level visual elements, that are both 1) representative, i.e. frequently occurring within a visual dataset, and 2) visually discriminative. However, the current approaches are rather ad hoc and difficult to analyze and evaluate. In this work, we pose visual element discovery as discriminative mode seeking, drawing connections to the the well-known and well-studied mean-shift algorithm. Given a weakly-labeled image collection, our method discovers visually-coherent patch clusters that are maximally discriminative with respect to the labels. One advantage of our formulation is that it requires only a single pass through the data. We also propose the Purity-Coverage plot as a principled way of experimentally analyzing and evaluating different visual discovery approaches, and compare our method against prior work on the Paris Street View dataset. We also evaluate our method on the task of scene classification, demonstrating state-of-the-art performance on the MIT Scene-67 dataset.
Online Learning with Costly Features and Labels,This paper introduces the "online probing" problem: In each round, the learner is able to purchase the values of a subset of feature values. After the learner uses this information to come up with a prediction for the given round, he then has the option of paying for seeing the loss that he is evaluated against. Either way, the learner pays for the imperfections of his predictions and whatever he chooses to observe, including the cost of observing the loss function for the given round and the cost of the observed features. We consider two variations of this problem, depending on whether the learner can observe the label for free or not. We provide algorithms and upper and lower bounds on the regret for both variants. We show that a positive cost for observing the label significantly increases the regret of the problem.
Near-optimal Anomaly Detection in Graphs using Lovasz Extended Scan Statistic,The detection of anomalous activity in graphs is a statistical problem that arises in many applications, such as network surveillance, disease outbreak detection, and activity monitoring in social networks. Beyond its wide applicability, graph structured anomaly detection serves as a case study in the difficulty of balancing computational complexity with statistical power. In this work, we develop from first principles the generalized likelihood ratio test for determining if there is a well connected region of activation over the vertices in the graph in Gaussian noise. Because this test is computationally infeasible, we provide a relaxation, called the Lov\'asz extended scan statistic (LESS) that uses submodularity to approximate the intractable generalized likelihood ratio. We demonstrate a connection between LESS and maximum a-posteriori inference in Markov random fields, which provides us with a poly-time algorithm for LESS. Using electrical network theory, we are able to control type 1 error for LESS and prove conditions under which LESS is risk consistent. Finally, we consider specific graph models, the torus, $k$-nearest neighbor graphs, and $\epsilon$-random graphs. We show that on these graphs our results provide near-optimal performance by matching our results to known lower bounds.
Convergence of Monte Carlo Tree Search in Simultaneous Move Games,In this paper, we study Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS) in zero-sum extensive-form games with perfect information and simultaneous moves. We present a general template of MCTS algorithms for these games, which can be instantiated by various selection methods. We formally prove that if a selection method is $\epsilon$-Hannan consistent in a matrix game and satisfies additional requirements on exploration, then the MCTS algorithm eventually converges to an approximate Nash equilibrium (NE) of the extensive-form game. We empirically evaluate this claim using regret matching and Exp3 as the selection methods on randomly generated and worst case games. We confirm the formal result and show that additional MCTS variants also converge to approximate NE on the evaluated games.
Sparse Additive Text Models with Low Rank Background,The sparse additive model for text modeling involves the sum-of-exp computing, with consuming costs for large scales. Moreover, the assumption of equal background across all classes/topics may be too strong. This paper extends to propose sparse additive model with low rank background (SAM-LRB), and simple yet efficient estimation. Particularly, by employing a double majorization bound, we approximate the log-likelihood into a quadratic lower-bound with the sum-of-exp terms absent. The constraints of low rank and sparsity are then simply embodied by nuclear norm and $\ell_1$-norm regularizers. Interestingly, we find that the optimization task in this manner can be transformed into the same form as that in Robust PCA. Consequently, parameters of supervised SAM-LRB can be efficiently learned using an existing algorithm for Robust PCA based on accelerated proximal gradient. Besides the supervised case, we extend SAM-LRB to also favor unsupervised and multifaceted scenarios. Experiments on real world data demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of SAM-LRB, showing state-of-the-art performances.
On Algorithms for Sparse Multi-factor NMF,Nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) is a popular data analysis method, the objective of which is to decompose a matrix with all nonnegative components into the product of two other nonnegative matrices.  In this work, we describe a new simple and efficient algorithm for multi-factor nonnegative matrix factorization problem ({mfNMF}), which generalizes the original NMF problem to more than two factors.  Furthermore, we extend the mfNMF algorithm to incorporate a regularizer based on Dirichlet distribution over normalized columns to encourage sparsity in the obtained factors.  Our sparse NMF algorithm affords a closed form and an intuitive interpretation, and is more efficient in comparison with previous works that use fix point iterations. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our algorithms on both synthetic and real data sets.
Generalizing Analytic Shrinkage for Arbitrary Covariance Structures,Analytic shrinkage is a statistical technique that offers a fast alternative to cross-validation for the regularization of covariance matrices and has appealing consistency properties. We show that the proof of consistency implies bounds on the growth rates of eigenvalues and their dispersion, which are often violated in data. We prove consistency under assumptions which do not restrict the covariance structure and therefore better match real world data. In addition, we propose an extension of analytic shrinkage --orthogonal complement shrinkage-- which adapts to the covariance structure. Finally we demonstrate the superior performance of our novel approach on data from the domains of finance, spoken letter and optical character recognition, and neuroscience.
Reward Mapping for Transfer in Long-Lived Agents,We consider how to transfer knowledge from previous tasks to a current task in long-lived and bounded agents that must solve a sequence of MDPs over a finite lifetime.  A novel aspect of our transfer approach is that we reuse reward functions.   While this may seem counterintuitive, we build on the insight of recent work on the optimal rewards problem that guiding an agent's behavior with reward functions other than the task-specifying reward function can help overcome computational  bounds of  the agent.    Specifically, we use good guidance reward functions learned on previous tasks in the sequence to incrementally train a reward mapping function that maps task-specifying reward functions into good initial guidance reward functions for subsequent tasks. We demonstrate that our approach can substantially improve the agent's performance relative to other approaches, including an approach that transfers policies.
Modeling Clutter Perception using Parametric Proto-object Partitioning,Visual clutter, the perception of an image as being crowded and disordered, affects aspects of our lives ranging from object detection to aesthetics, yet relatively little effort has been made to model this important and ubiquitous percept. Our approach models clutter as the number of proto-objects segmented from an image, with proto-objects defined as groupings of superpixels that are similar in intensity, color, and gradient orientation features. We introduce a novel parametric method of merging superpixels by modeling mixture of Weibull distributions on similarity distance statistics, then taking the normalized number of proto-objects following partitioning as our estimate of clutter perception. We validated this model using a new $\text{90}-$image dataset of realistic scenes rank ordered by human raters for clutter, and showed that our method not only predicted clutter extremely well (Spearman's $\rho = 0.81$, $p < 0.05$), but also outperformed all existing clutter perception models and even a behavioral object segmentation ground truth. We conclude that the number of proto-objects in an image affects clutter perception more than the number of objects or features.
Speeding up Permutation Testing in Neuroimaging,Multiple hypothesis testing is a significant problem in nearly all neuroimaging studies. In order to correct for this phenomena, we require a reliable estimate of the Family-Wise Error Rate (FWER). The well known Bonferroni correction method, while being simple to implement, is quite conservative, and can substantially under-power a study because it ignores dependencies between test statistics. Permutation testing, on the other hand, is an exact, non parametric method of estimating the FWER for a given  threshold, but for acceptably low thresholds the computational burden can be prohibitive. In this paper, we observe that permutation testing in fact amounts to populating the columns of a very large matrix P. By analyzing the spectrum of this matrix, under certain conditions, we see that P has a low-rank plus a low-variance residual decomposition which makes it suitable for highly subsampled  on the order of 0.5%  matrix completion methods. Thus, we propose a novel permutation testing methodology which offers a large speedup, without sacrificing the fidelity of the estimated FWER. Our valuations on four different neuroimaging datasets show that a computational speedup factor of roughly 50 can be achieved while recovering the FWER distribution up to very high accuracy. Further, we show that the estimated  threshold is also recovered faithfully, and is stable.
Learning invariant representations and applications to face verification,One approach to computer object recognition and modeling the brain's ventral stream involves unsupervised learning of representations that are invariant to common transformations. However, applications of these ideas have usually been limited to 2D affine transformations, e.g., translation and scaling, since they are easiest to solve via convolution. In accord with a recent theory of transformation-invariance, we propose a model that, while capturing other common convolutional networks as special cases, can also be used with arbitrary identity-preserving transformations. The model's wiring can be learned from videos of transforming objects---or any other grouping of images into sets by their depicted object. Through a series of successively more complex empirical tests, we study the invariance/discriminability properties of this model with respect to different transformations. First, we empirically confirm theoretical predictions for the case of 2D affine transformations. Next, we apply the model to non-affine transformations: as expected, it performs well on face verification tasks requiring invariance to the relatively smooth transformations of 3D rotation-in-depth and changes in illumination direction. Surprisingly, it can also tolerate clutter "transformations'' which map an image of a face on one background to an image of the same face on a different background. Motivated by these empirical findings, we tested the same model on face verification benchmark tasks from the computer vision literature: Labeled Faces in the Wild, PubFig and a new dataset we gathered---achieving strong performance in these highly unconstrained cases as well.
Binary to Bushy: Bayesian Hierarchical Clustering with the Beta Coalescent,Discovering hierarchical regularities in data is a key problem in interacting   with large datasets, modeling cognition, and encoding knowledge. A previous   Bayesian solution---Kingman's coalescent---provides a convenient probabilistic   model for data represented as a binary tree. Unfortunately, this is   inappropriate for data better described by bushier trees. We generalize an   existing belief propagation framework of Kingman's coalescent to the   beta coalescent, which models a wider range of tree structures.   Because of the complex combinatorial search over possible structures, we   develop new sampling schemes using sequential Monte Carlo and Dirichlet   process mixture models, which render inference efficient and tractable.     We present results on both synthetic and real data that show the beta coalescent      outperforms Kingman's coalescent on real datasets and is qualitatively better at    capturing data in bushy hierarchies.
Heterogeneous-Neighborhood-based Multi-Task Local Learning Algorithms,All the existing multi-task local learning methods are defined on homogeneous neighborhood which consists of all data points from only one task. In this paper, different from existing methods, we propose local learning methods for multi-task classification and regression problems based on heterogeneous neighborhood which is defined on data points from all tasks. Specifically, we extend the k-nearest-neighbor classifier by formulating the decision function for each data point as a weighted voting among the neighbors from all tasks where the weights are task-specific. By defining a regularizer to enforce the task-specific weight matrix to approach a symmetric one, a regularized objective function is proposed and an efficient coordinate descent method is developed to solve it. For regression problems, we extend the kernel regression to multi-task setting in a similar way to the classification case. Experiments on some toy data and real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed methods.
Action from Still Image Dataset and Inverse Optimal Control to Learn Task Specific Visual Scanpaths,Human eye movements provide a rich source of information into the human visual processing. The complex interplay between the task and the visual stimulus is believed to determine human eye movements, yet it is not fully understood. This has precluded the development of reliable dynamic eye movement prediction systems. Our work makes three contributions towards addressing this problem. First, we complement one of the largest and most challenging static computer vision datasets, VOC 2012 Actions, with human eye movement annotations collected under the task constraints of action and context recognition. Our dataset is unique among eyetracking datasets for still images in terms of its large scale (over 1 million fixations, 9157 images), task control and action from a single image emphasis. Second, we introduce models to automatically discover areas of interest (AOI) and introduce novel dynamic consistency metrics, based on them. Our method can automatically determine the number and spatial support of the AOIs, in addition to their locations. Based on such encodings, we show that, on unconstrained read-world stimuli, task instructions have significant influence on visual behavior. Finally, we leverage our large scale dataset in conjunction with powerful machine learning techniques and computer vision features, to introduce novel dynamic eye movement prediction methods which learn task-sensitive reward functions from eye movement data and efficiently integrate these rewards to plan future saccades based on inverse optimal control. We show that the propose methodology achieves state of the art scanpath modeling results.
Beyond Pairwise: Provably Fast Algorithms for Approximate $k$-Way  Similarity Search,We go beyond the notion of pairwise similarity and look into  search problems with $k$-way similarity functions. In this paper, we focus on problems related to  \emph{3-way Jaccard} similarity: $\mathcal{R}^{3way}= \frac{|S_1 \cap S_2 \cap S_3|}{|S_1 \cup S_2 \cup S_3|}$, $S_1, S_2, S_3 \in \mathcal{C}$, where $\mathcal{C}$ is a size $n$ collection of sets (or binary vectors).  We show that approximate $\mathcal{R}^{3way}$ similarity search problems admit  fast algorithms with  provable guarantees, analogous to the pairwise case. Our analysis and speedup guarantees naturally extend to $k$-way resemblance. In the process, we extend traditional framework of \emph{locality sensitive hashing (LSH)} to handle higher order similarities, which could be of independent theoretical interest. The applicability of $\mathcal{R}^{3way}$ search is shown on the "Google sets" application. In addition, we demonstrate the advantage of $\mathcal{R}^{3way}$ resemblance over the pairwise case in improving retrieval quality.
Geometric optimisation on positive definite matrices for elliptically contoured distributions,Hermitian positive definite matrices (HPD) recur throughout statistics and machine learning. In this paper we develop \emph{geometric optimisation} for globally optimising certain nonconvex loss functions arising in the modelling of data via elliptically contoured distributions (ECDs). We exploit the remarkable structure of the convex cone of positive definite matrices which allows one to uncover hidden geodesic convexity of objective functions that are nonconvex in the ordinary Euclidean sense. Going even beyond manifold convexity we show how further metric properties of HPD matrices can be exploited to globally optimise several ECD log-likelihoods that are not even geodesic convex. We present key results that help recognise this geometric structure, as well as obtain efficient fixed-point algorithms to optimise the corresponding objective functions. To our knowledge, ours are the most general results on geometric optimisation of HPD matrices known so far. Experiments reveal the benefits of our approach---it avoids any eigenvalue computations which makes it very competitive.
Policy Shaping: Integrating Human Feedback with Reinforcement Learning,A long term goal of Interactive Reinforcement Learning is to incorporate non-expert human feedback to solve complex tasks. State-of-the-art methods have approached this problem by mapping human information to reward and value signals to indicate preferences and then iterating over them to compute the necessary control policy. In this paper we argue for an alternate, more effective characterization of human feedback: Policy Shaping. We introduce Advise, a Bayesian approach that attempts to maximize the information gained from human feedback by utilizing it as direct labels on the policy. We compare Advise to state-of-the-art approaches and highlight scenarios where it outperforms them and importantly is robust to infrequent and inconsistent human feedback.
Context-sensitive active sensing in humans,Humans and animals readily utilize active sensing, or the use of self-motion, to focus sensory and cognitive resources on the behaviorally most relevant stimuli and events in the environment. Understanding the computational basis of natural active sensing is important both for advancing brain sciences and for developing more powerful artificial systems. Recently, a goal-directed, context-sensitive, Bayesian control strategy for active sensing, termed C-DAC (Context-Dependent Active Controller), was proposed (Ahmad & Yu, 2013). In contrast to previously proposed algorithms for human active vision, which tend to optimize abstract statistical objectives and therefore cannot adapt to changing behavioral context or task goals, C-DAC directly minimizes behavioral costs and thus, automatically adapts itself to different task conditions. However, C-DAC is limited as a model of human active sensing, given its computational/representational requirements, especially for more complex, real-world situations. Here, we propose a myopic approximation to C-DAC, which also takes behavioral costs into account, but achieves a significant reduction in complexity by looking only one step ahead. We also present data from a human active visual search experiment, and compare the performance of the various models against human behavior. We find that C-DAC and its myopic variant both achieve better fit to human data than Infomax (Butko & Movellan, 2010), which maximizes expected cumulative future information gain. In summary, this work provides novel experimental results that differentiate theoretical models for human active sensing, as well as a novel active sensing algorithm that retains the context-sensitivity of the optimal controller while achieving significant computational savings.
What Are the Invariant Occlusive Components of Image Patches? A Probabilistic Generative Approach,We study optimal image encoding based on a generative approach with non-linear feature combinations and explicit position encoding. By far most approaches to unsupervised learning learning of visual features, such as sparse coding or ICA, account for translations by representing the same features at different positions. Some earlier models used a separate encoding of features and their positions to facilitate invariant data encoding and recognition. All probabilistic generative models with explicit position encoding have so far assumed a linear superposition of components to encode image patches. Here, we for the first time apply a model with non-linear feature superposition and explicit position encoding. By avoiding linear superpositions, the studied model represents a closer match to component occlusions which are ubiquitous in natural images. In order to account for occlusions, the non-linear model encodes patches qualitatively very different from linear models by using component representations separated into mask and feature parameters. We first investigated encodings learned by the model using artificial data with mutually occluding components. We find that the model extracts the components, and that it can correctly identify the occlusive components with the hidden variables of the model. On natural image patches, the model learns component masks and features for typical image components. By using reverse correlation, we estimate the receptive fields associated with the model's hidden units. We find many Gabor-like or globular receptive fields as well as fields sensitive to more complex structures. Our results show that probabilistic models that capture occlusions and invariances can be trained efficiently on image patches, and that the resulting encoding represents an alternative model for the neural encoding of images in the primary visual cortex.
Parallel Sampling of DP Mixture Models using Sub-Cluster Splits,We present a novel MCMC sampler for Dirichlet process mixture models that can be used for conjugate or non-conjugate prior distributions. The proposed sampler can be massively parallelized to achieve significant computational gains. A non-ergodic restricted Gibbs iteration is mixed with split/merge proposals to produce a valid sampler. Each regular cluster is augmented with two sub-clusters to construct likely split moves. Unlike many previous parallel samplers, the proposed sampler accurately enforces the correct stationary distribution of the Markov chain without the need for approximate models. Empirical results illustrate that the new sampler exhibits better convergence properties than current methods.
Learning Adaptive Value of Information for Structured Prediction,Discriminative methods for learning structured models have enabled wide-spread use of very rich feature representations.  However, the computational cost of feature extraction is prohibitive for large-scale or time-sensitive applications, often dominating the cost of inference in the models.  Significant efforts have been devoted to sparsity-based model selection to decrease this cost.  Such feature selection methods control computation statically and miss the opportunity to fine-tune feature extraction to each input at run-time.  We address the key challenge of learning to control fine-grained feature extraction adaptively, exploiting non-homogeneity of the data. We propose an architecture that uses a rich feedback loop between extraction and prediction. The run-time control policy is learned using efficient value-function approximation, which adaptively determines the value of information of features at the level of individual variables for each input.  We demonstrate significant speedups over state-of-the-art methods on two challenging datasets. For articulated pose estimation in video, we achieve a more accurate state-of-the-art model that is simultaneously 4$\times$ faster while using only a small fraction of possible features, with similar results on an OCR task.
High-Dimensional Gaussian Process Bandits,Many applications in machine learning require optimizing unknown functions defined over a high-dimensional space from noisy samples that are expensive to obtain. We address this notoriously hard challenge, under the assumptions that the function varies only along some low-dimensional subspace and is smooth (i.e., it has a low norm in a Reproducible Kernel Hilbert Space). In particular, we present the SI-BO algorithm, which leverages recent low-rank matrix recovery techniques to learn the underlying subspace of the unknown function and applies Gaussian Process Upper Confidence sampling for optimization of the function. We carefully calibrate the explorationexploitation tradeoff by allocating sampling budget to subspace estimation and function optimization, and obtain the first subexponential cumulative regret bounds and convergence rates for Bayesian optimization in high-dimensions under noisy observations. Numerical results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in difficult scenarios.
Robust Multimodal Graph Matching: Sparse Coding Meets Graph Matching,Graph matching is a challenging problem with very important applications in a wide range of fields, from image and video analysis to biological and biomedical problems. We propose a robust graph matching algorithm inspired in sparsity-related techniques. We cast the problem, resembling group or collaborative sparsity formulations, as a non-smooth convex optimization problem that can be efficiently solved using augmented Lagrangian techniques. The method can deal with weighted or unweighted graphs, as well as multimodal data, where different graphs represent different types of data. The proposed approach is also naturally integrated with collaborative graph inference techniques, solving general network inference problems where the observed variables, possibly coming from different modalities, are not in correspondence. The algorithm is tested and compared with state-of-the-art graph matching techniques in both synthetic and real graphs. We also present results on multimodal graphs and applications to collaborative inference of brain connectivity from alignment-free functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data.
Learning word embeddings efficiently with noise-contrastive estimation,Continuous-valued word embeddings learned by neural language models have recently been shown to capture semantic and syntactic information about words very well, setting performance records on several word similarity tasks.  The best results are obtained by learning high-dimensional embeddings from very large quantities of data, which makes scalability of the training method a critical factor.  We propose a simple and scalable new approach to learning word embeddings based on training log-bilinear models with noise-contrastive estimation.  Our approach is simpler, faster, and produces better results than the current state-of-the art method of Mikolov et al. (2013a). We achieve results comparable to the best ones reported, which were obtained on a cluster, using four times less data and more than an order of magnitude less computing time. We also investigate several model types and find that the embeddings learned by the simpler models perform at least as well as those learned by the more complex ones.
Sparse Inverse Covariance Estimation with Calibration,We propose a semiparametric procedure for estimating high dimensional sparse inverse covariance matrix. Our method, named ALICE, is applicable to the elliptical family. Computationally, we develop an efficient dual inexact iterative projection (${\rm D_2}$P) algorithm based on the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM). Theoretically, we prove that the ALICE estimator achieves the parametric rate of convergence in both parameter estimation and model selection. Moreover, ALICE calibrates regularizations when estimating each column of the inverse covariance matrix. So it not only is asymptotically tuning free, but also achieves an improved finite sample performance. We present numerical simulations to support our theory, and a real data example to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed estimator.
Third-Order Edge Statistics: Contour Continuation, Curvature, and Cortical Connections,Association field models have been used to explain human contour grouping performance and to explain the mean frequency of long-range horizontal connections across cortical columns in V1. However, association fields essentially depend on pairwise statistics of edges in natural scenes. We develop a spectral test of the sufficiency of pairwise statistics and show that there is significant higher-order structure.  An analysis using a probabilistic spectral embedding reveals curvature-dependent components to the association field, and reveals a challenge for biological learning algorithms.
Conditional Random Fields via Univariate Exponential Families,Conditional random fields, which model the distribution of a multivariate response conditioned on a set of covariates using undirected graphs, are widely used in a variety of multivariate prediction applications. Popular instances of this class of models such as categorical-discrete CRFs, Ising CRFs, and conditional Gaussian based CRFs, are not however best suited to the varied types of response variables in many applications, including count-valued responses. We thus introduce a novel subclass of CRFs, derived by imposing node-wise conditional distributions of response variables conditioned on the rest of the responses and the covariates as arising from univariate exponential families.  This allows us to derive novel multivariate CRFs given any univariate exponential distribution, including the Poisson, negative binomial, and exponential distributions. Also in particular, it addresses the common CRF problem of specifying "feature'' functions determining the interactions between response variables and covariates. We develop a class of tractable penalized $M$-estimators to learn these CRF distributions from data, as well as a unified sparsistency analysis for this general class of CRFs showing exact structure recovery can be achieved with high probability.
(More) Efficient Reinforcement Learning via Posterior Sampling,Most provably efficient learning algorithms introduce optimism about poorly-understood states and actions to encourage exploration. We study an alternative approach for efficient exploration, posterior sampling for reinforcement learning (PSRL). This algorithm proceeds in repeated episodes of known duration. At the start of each episode, PSRL updates a prior distribution over Markov decision processes and takes one sample from this posterior. PSRL then follows the policy that is optimal for this sample during the episode. The algorithm is conceptually simple, computationally efficient and allows an agent to encode prior knowledge in a natural way. We establish an $\tilde{O}(\tau S \sqrt{AT} )$ bound on the expected regret, where $T$ is time, $\tau$ is the episode length and $S$ and $A$ are the cardinalities of the state and action spaces. This bound is one of the first for an algorithm not based on optimism and close to the state of the art for any reinforcement learning algorithm. We show through simulation that PSRL significantly outperforms existing algorithms with similar regret bounds.
Non-Linear Domain Adaptation with Boosting,A common assumption in machine vision is that the training and test samples are drawn from the same distribution. However, there are many problems when this assumption is grossly violated, as in bio-medical applications where different acquisitions can generate drastic variations in the appearance of the data due to changing experimental conditions. This problem is accentuated with 3D data, for which annotation is very time-consuming, limiting the amount of data that can be labeled in new acquisitions for training. In this paper we present a multi-task learning algorithm for domain adaptation based on boosting. Unlike previous approaches that learn task-specific decision boundaries, our method learns a single decision boundary in a shared feature space, common to all tasks. We use the boosting-trick to learn a non-linear mapping of the observations in each task, with no need for specific a-priori knowledge of its global analytical form. This yields a more parameter-free domain adaptation approach that successfully leverages learning on new tasks where labeled data is scarce. We evaluate our approach on two challenging bio-medical datasets and achieve a significant improvement over the state-of-the-art.
Parametric Task Learning,We introduce a novel formulation of multi-task learning (MTL) called parametric task learning (PTL) that can systematically handle infinitely many tasks parameterized by a continuous parameter. Our key finding is that, for a certain class of PTL problems, the path of optimal task-wise solutions can be represented as piecewise-linear functions of the continuous task parameter. Based on this fact, we employ a parametric programming technique to obtain the common shared representation across all the continuously parameterized tasks efficiently. We show that our PTL formulation is useful in various scenarios such as learning under non-stationarity, cost-sensitive learning, and quantile regression, and demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed method experimentally in these scenarios.
A* Lasso for Learning a Sparse Bayesian Network Structure for Continuous Variables,We address the problem of learning a sparse Bayesian network  structure for continuous variables in a high-dimensional space. The constraint that the estimated Bayesian network structure  must be a directed acyclic graph (DAG) makes the problem challenging because of the huge search space of network structures. Most previous methods were based on a two-stage approach that prunes the search space in the first stage and then searches for a network structure that satisfies the DAG constraint in the second stage. Although this approach is effective in a low-dimensional setting, it is difficult to ensure that the correct network structure is not pruned in the first stage in a high-dimensional setting.  In this paper, we propose a single-stage method, called A* lasso, that recovers the optimal  sparse Bayesian network structure by solving a single optimization problem with A* search algorithm that uses lasso in its scoring system. Our approach substantially improves the computational efficiency of the well-known exact methods  based on dynamic programming. We also present a heuristic scheme that further improves the efficiency of A* lasso without significantly compromising the quality of solutions and   demonstrate this on benchmark Bayesian networks and real data.
Global MAP-Optimality by Shrinking the Combinatorial Search Area with Convex Relaxation,We consider energy minimization for undirected graphical models, also known as MAP-inference problem for Markov random fields. Although combinatorial methods, which return a provably optimal integral solution of the problem, made a big progress in the past decade, they are still typically unable to cope with large-scale datasets. On the other hand, large scale datasets are typically defined on sparse graphs, and convex relaxation methods, such as linear programming relaxations often provide good approximations to integral solutions.   We propose a novel method of combining combinatorial and convex programming techniques to obtain a global solution of the initial combinatorial problem. Based on the information obtained from the solution of the convex relaxation, our method confines application of the combinatorial solver to a small fraction of the initial graphical model, which allows to optimally solve big problems.   We demonstrate the power of our approach on a computer vision energy minimization benchmark.
Higher Order Priors for Joint Intrinsic Image, Objects, and Attributes Estimation,Many methods have been proposed to recover the intrinsic scene properties such as shape, reflectance and illumination from a single image. However, most of these models have been applied on laboratory datasets. In this work we explore the synergy effects between intrinsic scene properties recovered from an image, and the objects and attributes present in the scene. We cast the problem in a joint energy minimization framework; thus our model is able to encode the strong correlations between intrinsic properties (reflectance, shape, illumination), objects (table, tv-monitor), and materials (wooden, plastic) in a given scene. We tested our approach on the NYU and Pascal datasets, and observe both qualitative and quantitative improvements in the overall accuracy.
Robust Spatial Filtering with Beta Divergence,The efficiency of Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCI) largely depends upon a reliable extraction of informative features from the high-dimensional EEG signal. A crucial step in this protocol is the computation of spatial filters. The Common Spatial Patterns (CSP) algorithm computes filters that maximize the difference in band power between two conditions, thus it is tailored to extract the relevant information in motor imagery experiments. However, CSP is highly sensitive to artifacts in the EEG data, i.e. few outliers may alter the estimate drastically and decrease classification performance. Inspired by concepts from the field of information geometry we propose a novel approach for robustifying CSP. More precisely, we formulate CSP as a divergence maximization problem and utilize the property of a particular type of divergence, namely beta divergence, for robustifying the estimation of spatial filters in the presence of artifacts in the data. We demonstrate the usefulness of our method on toy data and on EEG recordings from 80 subjects.
Deep Fisher Networks for Large-Scale Image Classification,As massively parallel computations have become broadly available with modern GPUs, deep architectures trained on very large datasets have risen in popularity. Discriminatively trained convolutional neural networks, in particular, were recently shown to yield state-of-the-art performance in challenging image classification benchmarks such as ImageNet. However, elements of these architectures are similar to standard hand-crafted representations used in computer vision. In this paper, we explore the extent of this analogy, proposing a version of the state-of-the-art Fisher vector image encoding that can be stacked in multiple layers. This architecture significantly improves on standard Fisher vectors, and obtains competitive results with deep convolutional networks at a significantly smaller computational cost. Our hybrid architecture allows us to measure the performance improvement brought by a deeper image classification pipeline, while staying in the realms of conventional SIFT features and FV encodings.
Sinkhorn Distances: Lightspeed Computation of Optimal Transport,Optimal transportation distances are a fundamental family of parameterized distances for histograms in the probability simplex. Despite their appealing theoretical properties, excellent performance and intuitive formulation, their computation involves the resolution of a linear program whose cost is prohibitive whenever the histograms' dimension exceeds a few hundreds. We propose in this work a new family of optimal transportation distances that look at transportation problems from a maximum-entropy perspective. We smooth the classical optimal transportation problem with an entropic regularization term, and show that the resulting optimum is also a distance which can be computed through Sinkhorn's matrix scaling algorithm at a speed that is several orders of magnitude faster than that of transportation solvers. We also report improved performance on the MNIST benchmark problem over competing distances.
Fast Template Evaluation with Vector Quantization,Applying linear templates is an integral part of many object detection systems and accounts for a significant portion of computation time. We describe a method that achieves a substantial end-to-end speedup over the best current methods, without loss of accuracy. Our method is a combination of approximating scores by vector quantizing feature windows and a number of speedup techniques including cascade. Our procedure allows speed and accuracy to be traded off in two ways: by choosing the number of Vector Quantization levels, and by choosing to rescore windows or not. Our method can be directly plugged into any recognition system that relies on linear templates. We demonstrate our method to speed up the original Exemplar SVM detector [1] by an order of magnitude and Deformable Part models [2] by two orders of magnitude with no loss of accuracy.
Tracking Time-varying Graphical Structure,Structure learning algorithms for graphical models have focused almost exclusively on stable environments in which the underlying generative process does not change; that is, they assume that the generating model is globally stationary. In real-world environments, however, such changes often occur without warning or signal. Real-world data often come from generating models that are only locally stationary. In this paper, we present LoSST, a novel, heuristic structure learning algorithm that tracks changes in graphical model structure or parameters in a dynamic, real-time manner. We show by simulation that the algorithm performs comparably to batch-mode learning when the generating graphical structure is globally stationary, and significantly better when it is only locally stationary.
Optimal integration of visual speed across different spatiotemporal frequency channels,How does the human visual system compute the speed of a coherent motion stimulus that contains motion energy in different spatiotemporal frequency bands? Here we propose that perceived speed is the result of optimal integration of speed information from independent spatiotemporal frequency tuned channels. We formalize this hypothesis with a Bayesian observer model that treats the channel activity as independent cues, which are optimally combined with a prior expectation for slow speeds. We test the model against behavioral data from a 2AFC speed discrimination task with which we measured subjects' perceived speed of drifting sinusoidal gratings with different contrasts and spatial frequencies, and of various combinations of these single gratings. We find that perceived speed of the combined stimuli is independent of the relative phase of the underlying grating components, and that the perceptual biases and discrimination thresholds are always smaller for the combined stimuli, supporting the cue combination hypothesis. The proposed Bayesian model fits the data well, accounting for perceptual biases and thresholds of both simple and combined stimuli. Fits are improved if we assume that the channel responses are subject to divisive normalization, which is in line with physiological evidence.  Our results provide an important step toward a more complete model of visual motion perception that can predict perceived speeds for stimuli of arbitrary spatial structure.
Learning Trajectory Preferences for  Manipulators via Iterative Improvement,We consider the problem of learning good trajectories for manipulation tasks. This is challenging because the criterion defining a good trajectory varies with users, tasks and environments.  In this paper, we propose a co-active online  learning framework for teaching robots the preferences of its users for object  manipulation tasks. The key novelty of our approach lies in the type of feedback expected from the user: the human user does not need to demonstrate optimal trajectories as training data, but merely needs to iteratively provide trajectories that slightly improve over the trajectory currently proposed by the system. We argue that this  co-active preference feedback can be more easily elicited from the user than demonstrations of optimal trajectories, which are often challenging and non-intuitive to provide on high degrees of freedom manipulators. Nevertheless, theoretical regret bounds of our algorithm match the asymptotic rates of optimal trajectory algorithms. We also formulate a score function to capture the contextual information and demonstrate the generalizability of our algorithm on a variety of household tasks, for whom, the preferences were not only influenced by the object being manipulated but also by the surrounding environment.
Reinforcement Learning in Robust Markov Decision Processes,An important challenge in Markov decision processes is to ensure robustness with respect to unexpected or adversarial system behavior while taking advantage of well-behaving parts of the system. We consider a problem setting where some unknown parts of the state space can have arbitrary transitions while other parts are purely stochastic. We devise an algorithm that is adaptive to potentially adversarial behavior and show that it achieves similar regret bounds as the purely stochastic case.
Adaptive Step-Size for Policy Gradient Methods,In the last decade, policy gradient methods have significantly grown in popularity in the reinforcement--learning field. In particular, they have been largely employed in motor control and robotic applications, thanks to their ability to cope with continuous state and action domains and partial observable problems. Policy gradient researches have been mainly focused on the identification of effective gradient directions and the proposal of efficient estimation algorithms. Nonetheless, the performance of policy gradient methods is determined not only by the gradient direction, since convergence properties are strongly influenced by the choice of the step size: small values imply slow convergence rate, while large values may lead to oscillations or even divergence of the policy parameters. Step--size value is usually chosen by hand tuning and still little attention has been paid to its automatic selection. In this paper, we propose to determine the learning rate by maximizing a lower bound to the expected performance gain. Focusing on Gaussian policies, we derive a lower bound that is second--order polynomial of the step size, and we show how a simplified version of such lower bound can be maximized when the gradient is estimated from trajectory samples. The properties of the proposed approach are empirically evaluated in a linear--quadratic regulator problem.
Estimating the Unseen: Improved Estimators for Entropy and other Properties,Recently, [Valiant and Valiant] showed that a class of distributional properties, which includes such practically relevant properties as entropy, the number of distinct elements, and distance metrics between pairs of distributions, can be estimated given a SUBLINEAR sized sample.  Specifically, given a sample consisting of independent draws from any distribution over at most n distinct elements, these properties can be estimated accurately using a sample of size O(n / log n).  We propose a novel modification of this approach and show: 1) theoretically, our estimator is optimal (to constant factors, over worst-case instances), and 2) in practice, it performs exceptionally well for a variety of estimation tasks, on a variety of natural distributions, for a wide range of parameters.  Perhaps unsurprisingly, the key step in this approach is to first use the sample to characterize the "unseen" portion of the distribution.  This goes beyond such tools as the Good-Turing frequency estimation scheme, which estimates the total probability mass of the unobserved portion of the distribution: we seek to estimate the "shape"of the unobserved portion of the distribution.  This approach is robust, general, and theoretically principled;  we expect that it may be fruitfully used as a component within larger machine learning and data analysis systems.
Online Learning with Switching Costs and Other Adaptive Adversaries,We study the power of different types of adaptive (nonoblivious) adversaries in the setting of prediction with expert advice, under both full-information and bandit feedback. We measure the player's performance using a new notion of regret, also known as policy regret, which better captures the adversary's adaptiveness to the player's behavior. In a setting where losses are allowed to drift, we characterize ---in a nearly complete manner--- the power of adaptive adversaries with bounded memories and switching costs. In particular, we show that with switching costs, the attainable rate with bandit feedback is $T^{2/3}$. Interestingly, this rate is significantly worse than the $\sqrt{T}$ rate attainable with switching costs in the full-information case. Via a novel reduction from experts to bandits, we also show that a bounded memory adversary can force $T^{2/3}$ regret even in the full information case, proving that switching costs are easier to control than bounded memory adversaries. Our lower bounds rely on a new stochastic adversary strategy that generates loss processes with strong dependencies.
DESPOT: Online POMDP Planning with Regularization,POMDPs provide a principled framework for planning under uncertainty, but are computationally intractable, due to the curse of dimensionality and the curse of history. This paper presents an online lookahead search algorithm that alleviates these difficulties by limiting the search to a set of sampled scenarios. The execution of all policies on the sampled scenarios is summarized using a Determinized Sparse Partially Observable Tree (DESPOT), which is a sparsely sampled belief tree. Our algorithm, named Regularized DESPOT (R-DESPOT), searches the DESPOT for a policy that optimally balances the size of the policy and the accuracy on its value estimate obtained through sampling. We give an output-sensitive performance bound for all policies derived from the DESPOT, and show that R-DESPOT works well if a small optimal policy exists. We also give an anytime approximation to R-DESPOT. Experiments show strong results, compared with two of the fastest online POMDP algorithms.
Decision Jungles: Compact and Rich Models for Classification,Randomized decision trees and forests have a rich history in machine learning and have seen considerable success in application, perhaps particularly so for computer vision. However, they face a fundamental limitation: given enough data, the number of nodes in decision trees will grow exponentially with depth. For certain applications, for example on mobile or embedded processors, memory is a limited resource, and so the exponential growth of trees limits their depth, and thus their potential accuracy. This paper proposes decision jungles, revisiting the idea of ensembles of rooted decision directed acyclic graphs (DAGs), and shows these to be compact and powerful discriminative models for classification. Unlike conventional decision trees that only allow one path to every node, a DAG in a decision jungle allows multiple paths from the root to each leaf. We present and compare two new node merging algorithms that jointly optimize both the features and the structure of the DAGs efficiently. During training, node splitting and node merging are driven by the minimization of exactly the same objective function, here the weighted sum of entropies at the leaves. Results on varied datasets show that, compared to decision forests and several other baselines, decision jungles require dramatically less memory while considerably improving generalization.
Minimax Optimal Algorithms for Unconstrained Linear Optimization,We design and analyze minimax-optimal algorithms for online linear   optimization games where the player's choice is unconstrained.  The   player strives to minimize regret, the difference between his loss   and the loss of a post-hoc benchmark strategy.  The standard   benchmark is the loss of the best strategy chosen from a bounded   comparator set, whereas we consider a broad range of benchmark   functions. We consider the problem as a sequential multi-stage   zero-sum game, and we give a thorough analysis of the minimax   behavior of the game, providing characterizations for the value of   the game, as well as both the player's and the adversary's optimal   strategy.  We show how these objects can be computed efficiently   under certain circumstances, and by selecting an appropriate   benchmark, we construct a novel hedging strategy for an   unconstrained betting game.
Approximate Dynamic Programming Finally Performs Well in the Game of Tetris,Tetris is a popular video game that has been widely used as a benchmark for various optimization techniques including approximate dynamic programming (ADP) algorithms. A close look at the literature of this game shows that while ADP algorithms, that have been (almost) entirely based on approximating the value function (value function based), have performed poorly in Tetris, the methods that search directly in the space of policies by learning the policy parameters using an optimization black box, such as the cross entropy (CE) method, have achieved the best reported results. This makes us conjecture that Tetris is a game in which good policies are easier to represent, and thus, learn than their corresponding value functions. So, in order to obtain a good performance with ADP, we should use ADP algorithms that search in a policy space, instead of the more traditional ones that search in a value function space. In this paper, we put our conjecture to test by applying such an ADP algorithm, called classification-based modified policy iteration (CBMPI), to the game of Tetris. Our extensive experimental results show that for the first time an ADP algorithm, namely CBMPI, obtains the best results reported in the literature for Tetris in both small $10\times 10$ and large $10\times 20$ boards. Although the CBMPI's results are similar to those achieved by the CE method in the large board, CBMPI uses considerably fewer (almost 1/10) samples (call to the generative model of the game) than CE.
Learning a Deep Compact Image Representation for Visual Tracking,In this paper, we study the challenging problem of tracking the trajectory of a moving object in a video with possibly very complex background.  In contrast to most existing trackers which only learn the appearance of the tracked object online, we take a different approach, inspired by recent advances in deep learning architectures, by putting more emphasis on the (unsupervised) feature learning problem.  Specifically, by using auxiliary natural images, we train a stacked denoising autoencoder offline to learn generic image features that are more robust against variations.  This is then followed by knowledge transfer from offline training to the online tracking process.  Online tracking involves a classification neural network which is constructed from the encoder part of the trained autoencoder as a feature extractor and an additional classification layer.  Both the feature extractor and the classifier can be further tuned to adapt to appearance changes of the moving object.  Comparison with the state-of-the-art trackers on some challenging benchmark video sequences shows that our deep learning tracker is very efficient as well as more accurate.
Learning from Limited Demonstrations,We propose an approach to learning from demonstration (LfD) which leverages expert data, even if the expert examples are very few or inaccurate.  We achieve this by integrating LfD in an approximate policy iteration algorithm.  The key idea of our approach is that expert examples are used to generate linear constraints on the optimization, in a similar fashion to large-margin classification.  We prove an upper bound on the true Bellman error of the approximation computed by the algorithm at each iteration.  We show empirically that the algorithm outperforms both pure policy iteration, as well as DAgger (a state-of-art LfD algorithm) and supervised learning in a variety of scenarios, including when very few and/or imperfect demonstrations are available.  Our experiments include simulations as well as a real robotic navigation task.
Actor-Critic Algorithms for Risk-Sensitive MDPs,In many sequential decision-making problems we may want to manage risk by minimizing some measure of variability in rewards in addition to maximizing a standard criterion. Variance related risk measures are among the most common risk-sensitive criteria in finance and operations research. However, optimizing many such criteria is known to be a hard problem. In this paper, we consider both discounted and average reward Markov decision processes. For each formulation, we first define a measure of variability for a policy, which in turn gives us a set of risk-sensitive criteria to optimize. For each of these criteria, we derive a formula for computing its gradient. We then devise actor-critic algorithms for estimating the gradient and updating the policy parameters in the ascent direction. We establish the convergence of our algorithms to locally risk-sensitive optimal policies. Finally, we demonstrate the usefulness of our algorithms in a traffic signal control application.
Transfer Learning in a Transductive Setting,Category models for objects or activities typically rely on supervised learning requiring sufficiently large training sets. Transferring knowledge from known categories to novel classes with no or only a few labels however is far less researched even though it is a common scenario. In this work, we extend transfer learning with semi-supervised learning to exploit unlabeled instances of (novel) categories with no or only a few labeled instances. Our proposed approach Propagated Semantic Transfer combines three main ingredients. First, we transfer information from known to novel categories by incorporating external knowledge, such as linguistic or expert-specified information, e.g., by a mid-level layer of semantic attributes. Second, we exploit the manifold structure of novel classes. More specifically we adapt a graph-based learning algorithm - so far only used for semi-supervised learning - to zero-shot and few-shot learning. Third, we improve the local neighborhood in such graph structures by replacing the raw feature-based representation with a mid-level object- or attribute-based representation. We evaluate our approach on three challenging datasets in two different applications, namely on Animals with Attributes and ImageNet for image classification and on MPII Composites for activity recognition. Our approach consistently outperforms state-of-the-art transfer and semi-supervised approaches on all datasets.
A multi-agent control framework for co-adaptation in brain-computer interfaces,In a closed-loop brain-computer interface (BCI), adaptive decoders are used to learn parameters suited to decoding the user's neural response. Feedback to the user provides information which permits the neural tuning to also adapt. We present an approach to model this process of co-adaptation between the encoding model of the neural signal and the decoding algorithm as a multi-agent formulation of the linear quadratic Gaussian (LQG) control problem. In simulation we characterize how decoding performance improves as the neural encoding and adaptive decoder optimize, qualitatively resembling experimentally demonstrated closed-loop improvement. We then propose a novel, modified decoder update rule which is aware of the fact that the encoder is also changing and show it can improve simulated co-adaptation dynamics. Our modeling approach offers promise for gaining insights into co-adaptation as well as improving user learning of BCI control in practical settings.
Scalable kernels for graphs with continuous attributes,While graphs with continuous node attributes arise in many applications, state-of-the-art graph kernels for comparing continuous-attributed graphs suffer from a high runtime complexity; for instance, the popular shortest path kernel scales as $\mathcal{O}(n^4)$, where $n$ is the number of nodes. In this paper, we present a class of path kernels with computational complexity $\mathcal{O}(n^2 (m + \delta^2))$, where $\delta$ is the graph diameter and $m$ the number of edges. Due to the sparsity and small diameter of real-world graphs, these kernels scale comfortably to large graphs. In our experiments, the presented kernels outperform state-of-the-art kernels in terms of speed and accuracy on classification benchmark datasets.
Point Based Value Iteration with Optimal Belief Compression for Dec-POMDPs,This paper presents four major results towards solving decentralized partially observable Markov decision problems (DecPOMDPs) culminating in an algorithm that outperforms all existing algorithms on all but one standard infinite-horizon benchmark problems. (1) We give an integer program that solves collaborative Bayesian games (CBGs). The program is notable because its linear relaxation is very often integral. (2) We show that a DecPOMDP with bounded belief can be converted to a POMDP (albeit with actions exponential in the number of beliefs). These actions correspond to strategies of a CBG. (3) We present a method to transform any DecPOMDP into a DecPOMDP with bounded beliefs (the number of beliefs is a free parameter) using optimal (not lossless) belief compression. (4) We show that the combination of these results opens the door for new classes of DecPOMDP algorithms based on previous POMDP algorithms. We choose one such algorithm, point-based valued iteration, and modify it to produce the first tractable value iteration method for DecPOMDPs which outperforms existing algorithms.
DeViSE: A Deep Visual-Semantic Embedding Model,Modern visual recognition systems are often limited in their ability to scale to large numbers of object categories. This limitation is in part due to the increasing difficulty of acquiring sufficient training data in the form of labeled images as the number of object categories grows. One remedy is to leverage data from other sources -- such as text data -- both to train visual models and to constrain their predictions. In this paper we present a new deep visual-semantic embedding model trained to identify visual objects using both labeled image data as well as semantic information gleaned from unannotated text. We demonstrate that this model matches state-of-the-art performance on the 1000-class ImageNet object recognition challenge while making more semantically reasonable errors, and also show that the semantic information can be exploited to make predictions about tens of thousands of image labels not observed during training. Semantic knowledge improves such zero-shot predictions by up to 65%, achieving hit rates of up to 10% across thousands of novel labels never seen by the visual model.
Learning Feature Selection Dependencies in Multi-task Learning,A probabilistic model based on the horseshoe prior is proposed for learning dependencies in the process of identifying relevant features for prediction. Exact inference is intractable in this model. However, expectation propagation offers an approximate alternative. Because the process of estimating feature selection dependencies may suffer from over-fitting in the model proposed, additional data from a multi-task learning scenario are considered for induction. The same model can be used in this setting with few modifications. Furthermore, the assumptions made are less restrictive than in other multi-task methods: The different tasks must share feature selection dependencies, but can have different relevant features and model coefficients. Experiments with real and synthetic data show that this model performs better than other multi-task alternatives from the literature. The experiments also show that the model is able to induce suitable feature selection dependencies for the problems considered, only from the training data.
Extracting regions of interest from biological images with convolutional sparse block coding,Biological tissue is often composed of cells with similar morphologies replicated throughout large volumes and many biological applications rely on the accurate identification of these cells and their locations from image data. Here we develop a generative model that captures the regularities present in images composed of repeating elements of a few different types. Formally, the model can be described as convolutional sparse block coding. For inference we use a variant of convolutional matching pursuit adapted to block-based representations. We extend the K-SVD learning algorithm to subspaces by retaining several principal vectors from the SVD decomposition instead of just one. Good models with little cross-talk between subspaces can be obtained by learning the blocks incrementally. We perform extensive experiments on simulated images and the inference algorithm consistently recovers a large proportion of the cells with a small number of false positives. We fit the convolutional model to noisy GCaMP6 two-photon images of spiking neurons and to Nissl-stained slices of cortical tissue and show that it recovers cell body locations without supervision. The flexibility of the block-based representation is reflected in the variability of the recovered cell shapes.
Symbolic Opportunistic Policy Iteration for Factored-Action MDPs,We address the scalability of symbolic planning under uncertainty with factored states and actions. Prior work has focused almost exclusively on factored states but not factored actions, and on value iteration (VI) compared to policy iteration (PI). Our rst contribution is a novel method for symbolic policy backups via the application of constraints, which is used to yield a new efcient symbolic imple- mentation of modied PI (MPI) for factored action spaces. While this approach improves scalability in some cases, naive handling of policy constraints comes with its own scalability issues. This leads to our second and main contribution, symbolic Opportunistic Policy Iteration (OPI), which is a novel convergent al- gorithm lying between VI and MPI. The core idea is a symbolic procedure that applies policy constraints only when they reduce the space and time complexity of the update, and otherwise performs full Bellman backups, thus automatically adjusting the backup per state. We also give a memory bounded version of this algorithm allowing a space-time tradeoff. Empirical results show signicantly improved scalability over the state-of-the-art.
Analyzing the Harmonic Structure in Graph-Based Learning,We show that either explicitly or implicitly, various well-known graph-based models exhibit a common significant \emph{harmonic} structure in its target function -- the value of a vertex is approximately the weighted average of the values of its adjacent neighbors. Understanding of such structure and analysis of the loss defined over such structure help reveal important properties of the target function over a graph. In this paper, we show that the variation of the target function across a cut can be upper and lower bounded by the ratio of its harmonic loss and the cut cost. We use this to develop an analytical tool and analyze 5 popular models in graph-based learning: absorbing random walks, partially absorbing random walks, hitting times, pseudo-inverse of graph Laplacian, and eigenvectors of the Laplacian matrices. Our analysis well explains several open questions of these models reported in the literature. Furthermore, it provides theoretical justifications and guidelines for their practical use. Simulations on synthetic and real datasets support our analysis.
On model selection consistency of penalized M-estimators: a geometric theory,Penalized M-estimators are used in diverse areas of science and engineering to fit high-dimensional models with some low-dimensional structure. Often, the penalties are \emph{geometrically decomposable}, \ie\ can be expressed as a sum of (convex) support functions. We generalize the notion of irrepresentable to geometrically decomposable penalties and develop a general framework for establishing consistency and model selection consistency of M-estimators with such penalties. We then use this framework to derive results for some special cases of interest in bioinformatics and statistical learning.
Optimistic policy iteration and natural actor-critic: A unifying view and a non-optimality result,Approximate dynamic programming approaches to the reinforcement learning problem are often categorized into greedy value function methods and value-based policy gradient methods. As our first main result, we show that an important subset of the latter methodology is, in fact, a limiting special case of a general formulation of the former methodology; optimistic policy iteration encompasses not only most of the greedy value function methods but also natural actor-critic methods, and permits one to directly interpolate between them. The resulting continuum adjusts the strength of the Markov assumption in policy improvement and, as such, can be seen as dual in spirit to the continuum in TD($\lambda$)-style algorithms in policy evaluation. As our second main result, we show for a substantial subset of soft-greedy value function approaches that, while having the potential to avoid policy oscillation and policy chattering, this subset can never converge toward any optimal policy, except in a certain pathological case. Consequently, in the context of approximations, the majority of greedy value function methods seem to be deemed to suffer either from the risk of oscillation/chattering or from the presence of systematic sub-optimality.
Understanding variable importances in forests of randomized trees,Despite growing interest and practical use in various scientific areas, variable importances derived from tree-based ensemble methods are not well understood from a theoretical point of view. In this work we characterize the Mean Decrease Impurity (MDI) variable importances as measured by an ensemble of totally randomized trees in asymptotic sample and ensemble size conditions. We derive a three-level decomposition of the  information jointly provided by all input variables about the output in terms of i) the MDI importance of each input variable, ii) the degree of interaction of a given input variable with the other input variables, iii) the different interaction terms of a given degree. We then show that this MDI importance of a variable is equal to zero if and only if the variable is irrelevant and that the MDI importance of a relevant variable is invariant with respect to the removal or the addition of irrelevant variables. We illustrate these properties on a simple example and discuss how they may change in the case of  non-totally randomized trees such as Random Forests and Extra-Trees.
First-order Decomposition Trees,Lifting attempts to speedup probabilistic inference by exploiting symmetries in the model. Exact lifted inference methods, like their propositional counterparts, work by recursively decomposing the model and the problem. In the propositional case, there exist formal structures, such as decomposition trees (dtrees), that represent such a decomposition and allow us to determine the complexity of inference a priori. However, there is currently no equivalent structure nor analogous complexity results for lifted inference. In this paper, we introduce FO-dtrees, which upgrade propositional dtrees to the first-order level. We show how these trees can characterize a lifted inference solution for a probabilistic logical model (in terms of a sequence of lifted operations), and make a theoretical analysis of the complexity of lifted inference in terms of the novel notion of lifted width for the tree.
Reservoir Boosting : Between Online and Offline Ensemble Learning,We propose to train an ensemble with the help of a reservoir in which the learning algorithm can store a limited number of samples. This novel approach lies in the area between offline and online ensemble approaches and can be seen either as a restriction of the former or an enhancement of the latter.  We identify some basic strategies that can be used to populate this reservoir and present our main contribution, dubbed Greedy Edge Expectation Maximization (GEEM), that maintains the reservoir content in the case of Boosting by viewing the samples through their projections into the weak classifier response space.  We propose an efficient algorithmic implementation which makes it tractable in practice, and demonstrate its efficiency experimentally on several compute-vision data-sets, on which it outperforms both online and offline methods in a memory constrained setting.
Dimension-Free Exponentiated Gradient,We present a new online learning algorithm that extends the exponentiated gradient to infinite dimensional spaces. Our analysis shows that the algorithm is implicitly able to estimate the $L_2$ norm of the unknown competitor, $U$, achieving a regret bound of the order of $O(U \log (U T+1))\sqrt{T})$, instead of the standard $O((U^2 +1) \sqrt{T})$, achievable without knowing $U$. For this analysis, we introduce novel tools for algorithms with time-varying regularizers, through the use of local smoothness. Through a lower bound, we also show that the algorithm is optimal up to $\sqrt{\log T}$ term for linear and Lipschitz losses.
Training and Analysing Deep Recurrent Neural Networks,Time series often have a temporal hierarchy, with information that is spread out over multiple time scales. Common recurrent neural networks, however, do not explicitly accommodate such a hierarchy, and most research on them has been focusing on training algorithms rather than on their basic architecture. In this pa- per we study the effect of a hierarchy of recurrent neural networks on processing time series. Here, each layer is a recurrent network which receives the hidden state of the previous layer as input. This architecture allows us to perform hi- erarchical processing on difficult temporal tasks, and more naturally capture the structure of time series. We show that they reach state-of-the-art performance for recurrent networks in character-level language modelling when trained with sim- ple stochastic gradient descent. We also offer an analysis of the different emergent time scales.
Documents as multiple overlapping windows into grids of counts,In text analysis documents are represented as disorganized bags of words, models of count features are typically based on mixing a small number of topics \cite{lda,sam}. Recently, it has been observed that for many text corpora documents evolve into one another in a smooth way, with some features dropping and new ones being introduced. The counting grid \cite{cgUai} models this spatial metaphor literally: it is multidimensional grid of word distributions learned in such a way that a document's own distribution of features can be modeled as the sum of the histograms found in a window into the grid. The major drawback of this method is that it is essentially a mixture and all the content much be generated by a single contiguous area on the grid. This may be problematic especially for lower dimensional grids. In this paper, we overcome to this issue with the \emph{Componential Counting Grid} which brings the componential nature of topic models to the basic counting grid. We also introduce a generative kernel based on the document's grid usage and a visualization strategy useful for understanding large text corpora. We evaluate our approach on document classification and multimodal retrieval obtaining state of the art results on standard benchmarks.
Projected Natural Actor-Critic,Natural actor-critics are a popular class of policy search algorithms for finding locally optimal policies for Markov decision processes. In this paper we address a drawback of natural actor-critics that limits their real-world applicability - their lack of safety guarantees. We present a principled algorithm for performing natural gradient descent over a constrained domain. In the context of reinforcement learning, this allows for natural actor-critic algorithms that are guaranteed to remain within a known safe region of policy space. While deriving our class of constrained natural actor-critic algorithms, which we call Projected Natural Actor-Critics (PNACs), we also elucidate the relationship between natural gradient descent and mirror descent.
Direct 0-1 Loss Minimization and Margin Maximization with Boosting,We propose a boosting method, DirectBoost, a greedy coordinate descent algorithm that builds an ensemble classifier of weak classifiers through directly minimizing  empirical classification error over labeled training examples; once the training classification error is reduced to a local coordinatewise minimum, DirectBoost runs a greedy coordinate ascent algorithm that continuously adds weak classifiers to maximize any targeted arbitrarily defined margins until reaching a local coordinatewise maximum of the margins in a certain sense. Experimental results on a collection of machine-learning benchmark datasets show that DirectBoost gives consistently better results than AdaBoost, LogitBoost, LPBoost with column generation and BrownBoost, and is noise tolerant when it maximizes an n'th order bottom sample margin.
Distributed Exploration in Multi-Armed Bandits,We study exploration in Multi-Armed Bandits (MAB) in a setting where~$k$ players collaborate in order to identify an $\epsilon$-optimal arm. Our motivation comes from recent employment of MAB algorithms in computationally intensive, large-scale applications. Our results demonstrate a non-trivial tradeoff between the number of arm pulls required by each of the players, and the amount of communication between them. In particular, our main result shows that by allowing the $k$ players to communicate \emph{only once}, they are able to learn $\sqrt{k}$ times faster than a single player. That is, distributing learning to $k$ players gives rise to a factor~$\sqrt{k}$ parallel speed-up. We complement this result with a lower bound showing this is in general the best possible.  On the other extreme, we present an algorithm that achieves the ideal factor $k$ speed-up in learning performance, with communication only logarithmic in~$1/\epsilon$.
Reshaping Visual Datasets for Domain Adaptation,In visual recognition problems, the common data distribution mismatches between training and testing make domain adaptation essential. However, image data is difficult to manually divide into the discrete domains required by adaptation algorithms, and the standard practice of equating datasets with domains is a weak proxy for all the real conditions that alter the statistics in complex ways (lighting, pose, background, resolution, etc.) We propose an approach to automatically discover latent domains in image or video datasets. Our formulation imposes two key properties on domains: maximum distinctiveness and maximum learnability. By maximum distinctiveness, we require the underlying distributions of the identified domains to be different from each other; by maximum learnability, we ensure that a strong discriminative model can be learned from the domain. We devise a nonparametric representation and efficient optimization procedure for distinctiveness, which, when coupled with our learnability constraint, can successfully discover domains among both training and test data. We extensively evaluate our approach on object recognition and human activity recognition tasks.
chiru,Identifying groups of strongly correlated variables through Smoothed Ordered Weighted L1-norms The failure of LASSO to identify groups of correlated predictors in linear regression has sparked significant research interest. Recently, various norms [1, 2] were proposed, which can be best described as instances of ordered weighted 1 norms (OWL) [3], as an alternative to 1 regularization used in LASSO. OWL can identify groups of correlated variables but it forces the model tobe constant within a group. This artifactinduces unnecessary bias in the model  estimation. In this paper we take a submodular perspective and show that OWL can be posed as the Lovasz extension of a suitably defined submodular function. The submodular perspective not only explains the groupwise constant behavior of OWL, but also suggests alternatives. The main contribution of this paper is smoothed OWL (SOWL), a new family of norms, which not only identifies the groups but also allows the model to be flexible inside a group. We establish several algorithmic and theoretical properties of SOWL including group identification and model consistency. We also provide algorithmic toolsto compute the SOWL norm and its proximaloperator, whose computational complexityO(d log d) is significantly better than thatof general purpose solvers . In our experiments, SOWL compares favorably with respect to OWL in the regimes of interest.
chiru,Clustering by Sum of Norms: Stochastic Incremental Algorithm, Convergence and Cluster Recovery Standard clustering methods such as Kmeans,Gaussian mixture models, and hierarchical clustering, are beset by local minima, which are sometimes drastically suboptimal. Moreover the number of clusters K must be known in advance.The recently introduced sumofnorms (SON) or Clusterpath convex relaxation of k-means and hierarchical clustering shrinks cluster centroids toward one another and ensure a unique global minimizer. We give a scalable stochastic incremental algorithm based on proximal iterations to solve the SON problem with convergence guarantees. We also show that the algorithm recovers clusters under quite general conditions which have a similar form to the unifying proximity condition introduced in the approximation algorithms community (that covers paradigm cases such as Gaussian mixtures and planted partition models). We give experimental results to confirm that our algorithm scales much better than previous methods while producing clusters of comparable quality.
chiru,Bayesian Modeling of Temporal Coherence in Videos for Entity Discovery and Summarization A video is understood by users in terms of entities present in it. Entity Discovery is the task of building appearance model for each entity (e.g., a person), and finding all its occurrences in the video. We represent a video as a sequence of tracklets, each spanning frames, and associated with one entity. We pose Entity Discovery as tracklet clustering, and approach it by leveraging TemporalCoherence (TC): the property that temporally neighboring tracklets are likely to be associated with the same entity. Our major contributions are the first Bayesian nonparametric models for TC at tracklet-level. We extend Chinese Restaurant Process (CRP) to, and further to Temporally Coherent Chinese Restaurant Franchise (TC-CRF) to jointly model entities and temporal segments using mixture components and sparse distributions. For discovering persons in TV serial videos without meta-data like scripts, these methods show considerable improvement over state-of-the-art approaches to tracklet clustering in terms of clustering accuracy, cluster purity and entity coverage. The proposed methods can perform online tracklet clustering on streaming videos unlike existing approaches, and can automatically reject false tracklets. Finally we discuss entity-driven video summarization- where temporal segments of the video are selected based on the discovered entities, to create a semantically meaningful summary.Index TermsBayesian nonparametrics, Chinese restaurant process, temporal coherence, temporal segmentation, tracklet clustering, entity discovery, entity-driven video summarization
chiru,Non-negative Matrix Factorization under Heavy Noise The Noisy Non-negative Matrix factorization is: given a data matrix, find non-negative matrices so that A = BC + N, where N is a noise matrix. Existing polynomial time algorithms with proven error guarantees require each column N,j to have l1 norm much smaller than which could be very restrictive. In important applications of NMF such as Topic Modeling as well as theoretical noise models (eg. Gaussian with high ), almost every column of Nj violates this condition. We introduce the heavy noise model which only requires the average noise over large subsets of columns to be small. We initiate a study of Noisy NMF under the heavy noise model. We show that our noise model subsumes noise models of theoretical and practical interest (for eg. Gaussian noise of maximum possible ). We then devise an algorithm which under certain assumptions on solves the problem under heavy noise. Our error guarantees match those of previous algorithms. Our running time of is substantially better than the for the previous best. Our assumption on B is weaker than the Separability assumption made by all previous results. We provide empirical justification for our assumptions on C. We also provide the first proof of identifiability (uniqueness of B) for noisy NMF which is not based on separability and does not use hard to check geometric conditions. Our algorithm outperforms earlier polynomial time algorithms both in time and error, particularly in the presence of high noise.
chiru,Weighted Theta Functions and Embeddings with Applications to Max-Cut, Clustering and Summarization We introduce a unifying generalization of the Lovasz theta function, and the as-sociated geometric embedding, for graphs with weights on both nodes and edges.We show how it can be computed exactly by semidefinite programming, and how to approximate it using SVM computations. We show how the theta function can be interpreted as a measure of diversity in graphs and use this idea, and the graph embedding in algorithms for Max-Cut, correlation clustering and document summarization, all of which are well represented as problems on weighted graphs
chiru,A provable SVD-based algorithm for learning topics in dominant admixture corpus Topic models, such as Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), posit that documents are drawn from admixtures of distributions over words, known as topics. The inference problem of recovering topics from admixtures, is NP-hard. Assuming separability, a strong assumption, [4] gave the first provable algorithm for inference. For LDA model, [6] gave a provable algorithm using tensor-methods. But [4,6] do not learn topic vectors with bounded l1 error (a natural measure for probability vectors). Our aim is to develop a model which makes intuitive and empirically supported assumptions and to design an algorithm with natural, simple components such as SVD, which provably solves the inference problem for the model with bounded l1 error. A topic in LDA and other models is essentially characterized by a group of co-occurring words. Motivated by this, we introduce topic specific Catchwords, group of words which occur with strictly greater frequency in a topic than any other topic individually and are required to have high frequency together rather than individually. A major contribution of the paper is to show that under this more realistic assumption, which is empirically verified on real corpora, a singular value decomposition (SVD) based algorithm with a crucial pre-processing step of thresholding, can provably recover the topics from a collection of documents drawn from Dominant admixtures. Dominant admixtures are convex combination of distributions in which one distribution has a significantly higher contribution than others. Apart from the simplicity of the algorithm, the sample complexity has near optimal dependence on w0, the lowest probability that a topic is dominant, and is better than. Empirical evidence shows that on several real world corpora, both Catchwords and Dominant admixture assumptions hold and the proposed algorithm substantially outperforms the state of the art 
chiru,Randomized Algorithms for Large scale SVMs,We propose a randomized algorithm for training Support vector machines(SVMs) on large datasets. By using ideas from Random projections we show that the combinatorial dimension of SVMs is O(logn) with high probability. This estimate of combinatorial dimension is used to derive an iterative algorithm, called RandSVM, which at each step calls an existing solver to train SVMs on a randomly chosen subset of size O(logn). The algorithm has probabilistic guarantees and is capable of training SVMs with Kernels for both classification and regression problems. Experiments done on synthetic and real life data sets demonstrate that the algorithm scales up existing SVM learners, without loss of accuracy.
chiru,A Randomized Algorithm for Large Scale Support Vector Learning We propose a randomized algorithm for large scale SVM learning which solves the problem by iterating over random subsets of the data. Crucial to the algorithm for scalability is the size of the subsets chosen. In the context of text classification we show that, by using ideas from random projections, a sample size of O(log n) can be used to obtain a solution which is close to the optimal with a high probability. Experiments done on synthetic and real life data sets demonstrate that the algorithm scales up SVM learners, without loss in accuracy.
chiru,Minimax Probability Machine When constructing a classifier, the probability of correct classification of future data points should be maximized. In the current paper this desideratum is translated in a very direct way into an optimization problem, which is solved using methods from convex optimization. We also show how to exploit Mercer kernels in this setting to obtain nonlinear decision boundaries. A worst-case bound on the probability of misclassification of future data is obtained explicitly.
chiru,Controlled Sparsity Kernel Learning Multiple Kernel Learning(MKL) on Support Vector Machines(SVMs) has been a popular front of research in recent times due to its success in application problems like Object Categorization. This success is due to the fact that MKL has the ability to choose from a variety of feature kernels to identify the optimal kernel combination. But the initial formulation of MKL was only able to select the best of the features and misses out many other informative kernels presented. To overcome this, the Lp norm based formulation was proposed by Kloft et. al. This formulation is capable of choosing a non-sparse set of kernels through a control parameter p. Unfortunately, the parameter p does not have a direct meaning to the number of kernels selected. We have observed that stricter control over the number of kernels selected gives us an edge over these techniques in terms of accuracy of classification and also helps us to fine tune the algorithms to the time requirements at hand. In this work, we propose a Controlled Sparsity Kernel Learning (CSKL) formulation that can strictly control the number of kernels which we wish to select. The CSKL formulation introduces a parameter t which directly corresponds to the number of kernels selected. It is important to note that a search in t space is finite and fast as compared to p. We have also provided an efficient Reduced Gradient Descent based algorithm to solve the CSKL formulation, which is proven to converge. Through our experiments on the Caltech101 Object Categorization dataset, we have also shown that one can achieve better accuracies than the previous formulations through the right choice of t.
chiru,Lovsz  function, SVMs and finding dense subgraphs In this paper we establish that the Lovsz  function on a graph can be restated as a kernel learning problem. We introduce the notion of SVM- graphs, on which Lovsz  function can be approximated well by a Support vector machine (SVM). We show that Erds-Rnyi random G(n, p) graphs are SVM- graphs for log4 n/n  p < 1. Even if we embed a large clique of size (np/1-p) in a G(n, p) graph the resultant graph still remains a SVM- graph. This immediately suggests an SVM based algorithm for recovering a large planted clique in random graphs. Associated with the  function is the notion of orthogonal labellings. We introduce common orthogonal labellings which extends the idea of orthogonal labellings to multiple graphs. This allows us to propose a Multiple Kernel learning (MKL) based solution which is capable of identifying a large common dense subgraph in multiple graphs. Both in the planted clique case and common subgraph detection problem the proposed solutions beat the state of the art by an order of magnitude.
chiru,Mean Field Methods for a Special Class of Belief Networks The chief aim of this paper is to propose mean-field approximations for a broad class of Belief networks, of which sigmoid and noisy-or networks can be seen as special cases. The approximations are based on a powerful mean-field theory suggested by Plefka. We show that Saul, Jaakkola and Jordan' s approach is the first order approximation in Plefka's approach, via a variational derivation. The application of Plefka's theory to belief networks is not computationally tractable. To tackle this problem we propose new approximations based on Taylor series. Small scale experiments show that the proposed schemes are attractive.
chiru,Efficient algorithms for learning kernels from multiple similarity matrices with general convex loss functions In this paper we consider the problem of learning an n x n Kernel matrix from m similarity matrices under general convex loss. Past research have extensively studied the m =1 case and have derived several algorithms which require sophisticated techniques like ACCP, SOCP, etc. The existing algorithms do not apply if one uses arbitrary losses and often can not handle m > 1 case. We present several provably convergent iterative algorithms, where each iteration requires either an SVM or a Multiple Kernel Learning (MKL) solver for m > 1 case. One of the major contributions of the paper is to extend the well known Mirror Descent(MD) framework to handle Cartesian product of psd matrices. This novel extension leads to an algorithm, called EMKL, which solves the problem in O(m^2 log n) iterations; in each iteration one solves an MKL involving m kernels and m eigen-decomposition of n x n matrices. By suitably defining a restriction on the objective function, a faster version of EMKL is proposed, called REKL, which avoids the eigen-decomposition. An alternative to both EMKL and REKL is also suggested which requires only an SVM solver. Experimental results on real world protein data set involving several similarity matrices illustrate the efficacy of the proposed algorithms.
chiru,Conditional Models for Non-smooth Ranking Loss Functions Abstract:
Learning to rank is an important area at the interface of machine learning, information retrieval and Web search. The central challenge in optimizing various measures of ranking loss is that the objectives tend to be non-convex and discontinuous. To make such functions amenable to gradient based optimization procedures one needs to design clever bounds. In recent years, boosting, neural networks, support vector machines, and many other techniques have been applied. However, there is little work on directly modeling a conditional probability Pr(y|x_q) where y is a permutation of the documents to be ranked and x_q represents their feature vectors with respect to a query q. A major reason is that the space of y is huge: n! if n documents must be ranked. We first propose an intuitive and appealing expected loss minimization objective, and give an efficient shortcut to evaluate it despite the huge space of ys. Unfortunately, the optimization is non-convex, so we propose a convex approximation. We give a new, efficient Monte Carlo sampling method to compute the objective and gradient of this approximation, which can then be used in a quasi-Newton optimizer like LBFGS. Extensive experiments with the widely-used LETOR dataset show large ranking accuracy improvements beyond recent and competitive algorithms.
chiru,Randomized Algorithms for Large scale SVMs We propose a randomized algorithm for training Support vector machines(SVMs) on large datasets. By using ideas from Random projections we show that the combinatorial dimension of SVMs is O(logn) with high probability. This estimate of combinatorial dimension is used to derive an iterative algorithm, called RandSVM, which at each step calls an existing solver to train SVMs on a randomly chosen subset of size O(logn). The algorithm has probabilistic guarantees and is capable of training SVMs with Kernels for both classification and regression problems. Experiments done on synthetic and real life data sets demonstrate that the algorithm scales up existing SVM learners, without loss of accuracy.
chiru,Structured learning for non-smooth ranking losses Learning to rank from relevance judgment is an active research area. Itemwise score regression, pairwise preference satisfaction, and listwise structured learning are the major techniques in use. Listwise structured learning has been applied recently to optimize important non-decomposable ranking criteria like AUC (area under ROC curve) and MAP (mean average precision). We propose new, almost-linear-time algorithms to optimize for two other criteria widely used to evaluate search systems: MRR (mean reciprocal rank) and NDCG (normalized discounted cumulative gain) in the max-margin structured learning framework. We also demonstrate that, for different ranking criteria, one may need to use different feature maps. Search applications should not be optimized in favor of a single criterion, because they need to cater to a variety of queries. E.g., MRR is best for navigational queries, while NDCG is best for informational queries. A key contribution of this paper is to fold multiple ranking loss functions into a multi-criteria max-margin optimization. The result is a single, robust ranking model that is close to the best accuracy of learners trained on individual criteria. In fact, experiments over the popular LETOR and TREC data sets show that, contrary to conventional wisdom, a test criterion is often not best served by training with the same individual criterion.
