dukki,On Ideal Lattices, Gröbner Bases and Generalized Hash Functions,In this paper, we draw connections between ideal lattices and multivariate polynomial rings over integers using Gr\"obner bases. Ideal lattices are ideals in the residue class ring, Z[x]/⟨f⟩ (here f is a monic polynomial), and cryptographic primitives have been built based on these objects. As ideal lattices in the univariate case are generalizations of cyclic lattices, we introduce the notion of multivariate cyclic lattices and show that multivariate ideal lattices are indeed a generalization of them. Based on multivariate ideal lattices, we establish the existence of collision resistant hash functions using Gr\"obner basis techniques. For the construction of hash functions, we define a worst case problem, shortest substitution problem w.r.t. an ideal in Z[x1,…,xn], and establish hardness results using functional fields.
dukki,Uniform Hypergraph Partitioning: Provable Tensor Methods and Sampling Techniques In a series of recent works, we have generalised the consistency results in the stochastic block model literature to the case of uniform and non-uniform hypergraphs. The present paper continues the same line of study, where we focus on partitioning weighted uniform hypergraphs---a problem often encountered in computer vision. This work is motivated by two issues that arise when a hypergraph partitioning approach is used to tackle computer vision problems: (i) The uniform hypergraphs constructed for higher-order learning contain all edges, but most have negligible weights. Thus, the adjacency tensor is nearly sparse, and yet, not binary. (ii) A more serious concern is that standard partitioning algorithms need to compute all edge weights, which is computationally expensive for hypergraphs. This is usually resolved in practice by merging the clustering algorithm with a tensor sampling strategy---an approach that is yet to be analysed rigorously. We build on our earlier work on partitioning dense unweighted uniform hypergraphs, and address the aforementioned issues by proposing provable and efficient partitioning algorithms. Our analysis justifies the empirical success of practical sampling techniques. We also complement our theoretical findings by elaborate empirical comparison of various hypergraph partitioning schemes.
dukki,A Provable Generalized Tensor Spectral Method for Uniform Hypergraph Partitioning Matrix spectral methods play an important role in statistics and machine learning, and most often the word ‘matrix’ is dropped as, by default, one assumes that similarities or affinities are measured between two points, thereby resulting in similarity matrices. However, recent challenges in computer vision and text mining have necessitated the use of multi-way affinities in the learning methods, and this has led to a considerable interest in hypergraph partitioning methods in machine learning community. A plethora of “higher-order” algorithms have been proposed in the past decade, but their theoretical guarantees are not well-studied. In this paper, we develop a unified approach for partitioning uniform hypergraphs by means of a tensor trace optimization problem involving the affinity tensor, and a number of existing higher-order methods turn out to be special cases of the proposed formulation. We further propose an algorithm to solve the proposed trace optimization problem, and prove that it is consistent under a planted hypergraph model. We also provide experimental results to validate our theoretical findings.
dukki,On Gröbner Bases and Krull Dimension of Residue Class Rings of Polynomial Rings over Integral Domains Given an ideal a in A[x1,…,xn], where A is a Noetherian integral domain, we propose an approach to compute the Krull dimension of A[x1,…,xn]/a, when the residue class polynomial ring is a free A-module. When A is a field, the Krull dimension of A[x1,…,xn]/a has several equivalent algorithmic definitions by which it can be computed. But this is not true in the case of arbitrary Noetherian rings. For a Noetherian integral domain, A we introduce the notion of combinatorial dimension of A[x1,…,xn]/a and give a Gr\"obner basis method to compute it for residue class polynomial rings that have a free A-module representation w.r.t. a lexicographic ordering. For such A-algebras, we derive a relation between Krull dimension and combinatorial dimension of A[x1,…,xn]/a. An immediate application of this relation is that it gives a uniform method, the first of its kind, to compute the dimension of A[x1,…,xn]/a without having to consider individual properties of the ideal. For A-algebras that have a free A-module representation w.r.t. degree compatible monomial orderings, we introduce the concepts of Hilbert function, Hilbert series and Hilbert polynomials and show that Gr\"obner basis methods can be used to compute these quantities. We then proceed to show that the combinatorial dimension of such A-algebras is equal to the degree of the Hilbert polynomial. This enables us to extend the relation between Krull dimension and combinatorial dimension to A-algebras with a free A-module representation w.r.t. a degree compatible ordering as well.
dukki,CONSISTENCY OF SPECTRAL HYPERGRAPH PARTITIONING UNDER PLANTED PARTITION MODEL Hypergraph partitioning lies at the heart of a number of problems in machine learning and network sciences. Many algorithms for hypergraph partitioning have been proposed that extend standard approaches for graph partitioning to the case of hypergraphs. However, theoretical aspects of such methods have seldom received attention in the literature as compared to the extensive studies on the guarantees of graph partitioning. For instance, consistency results of spectral graph partitioning under the stochastic block model are well known. In this paper, we present a planted partition model for sparse random non-uniform hypergraphs that generalizes the stochastic block model. We derive an error bound for a spectral hypergraph partitioning algorithm under this model using matrix concentration inequalities.To the best of our knowledge, this is the first consistency result related to partitioning non-uniform hypergraphs.
dukki,Consistency of Spectral Partitioning of Uniform Hypergraphs under Planted Partition Model Spectral graph partitioning methods have received significant attention from both practitioners and theorists in computer science. Some notable studies have been carried out regarding the behavior of these methods for infinitely large sample size, which provide sufficient confidence to practitioners about the effectiveness of these methods. On the other hand, recent developments in computer vision have led to a plethora of applications, where the model deals with multi-way affinity relations and can be posed as uniform hypergraphs. In this paper, we view these models as random m-uniform hypergraphs and establish the consistency of spectral algorithm in this general setting. We develop a planted partition model or stochastic blockmodel for such problems using higher order tensors, present a spectral technique suited for the purpose and study its large sample behavior. The analysis reveals that the algorithm is consistent for m-uniform hypergraphs for larger values of m, and also the rate of convergence improves for increasing m. Our result provides the first theoretical evidence that establishes the importance of m-way affinities.
